Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
A: Hi! I'm Ali VanValkenburg. I'm a wife, dog mama to my beautiful Stanley, coach, and athlete. I'm loud, blunt, and sarcastic. I like to believe I'm becoming more patient, and mindful as I age. I grew up in Farmington Hills, and recently moved back into the house I grew up in.
 
Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
A: I was always active growing up. I started gymnastics at a young age and began competing at the age of 10. Once I started competing, I was training between 20-25 hours per week. Once I decided I was finished being a competitive gymnast at 16, I took up diving, which I did for two years until the end of high school.
 
Q: When did you get into CrossFit, and how?
A: I first saw CrossFit on TV in the summer of 2012. It was the final day of the CrossFit competition, final women's heat, and I was astounded by how strong these women were. They were throwing around weight I couldn't imagine, with movements I had never seen before. Later that year, I bought a Groupon for CrossFit and was too scared to go. It took me 6 months to finally head into the box with a friend, and I haven't looked back since. I started in March of 2013 and was L1 Certified by November.
 
Q: What is your favorite competition memory?
A: Gosh, this is hard to answer. Up until late last year, I really hadn't competed much. I wouldn't consider myself a "competitive" person. I like to believe that all I can do is my best, regardless of how that compares to others. With that being said, once we qualified for the Granite Games last year, I found myself in the scary position of not only competing on a high-level platform but with a team. Since gymnastics isn't a team sport, I had never competed on a team. That was the most difficult part; I didn't want to let everyone down. But, there's not a more supportive, loving group of friends that I could imagine competing with. Without Liz, James, and Nic, I would have never dreamed of competing in such a large competition. That weekend was definitely filled with lots of great memories, both on and off the competition floor. 

Q: Has your “loud, blunt, sarcastic” style scared anyone off?
A: I like to think not (but you'd have to ask our members)! I understand that not everyone reacts well to my directness, so I do my best to read each athlete and know whether or not a direct cue will help them succeed. I often have athletes thank me for giving them the "push" they needed. 
 
Q: You’ve had your L1 Cert for some time. Do you have any other coaching certifications, and do you plan on adding any?
A: In addition to my L1, I have my CrossFit mobility cert, CrossFit Scaling cert, TacFit and FlowFit. Two of the certifications I'm most interested in currently are the CrossFit Powerlifting, and Aerobic Capacity certifications. I believe the powerlifting certification done at Conjugate would be a blast because they have a lot of specialized equipment that would be fun to understand, as well as why it helps athletes improve. The aerobic capacity interests me because the more I discover as a coach, the more I realize I don't know. For example, people have issues with running mechanics, and I don't have the knowledge to help athletes fix their gate. Improving my knowledge of correct running strides, and theories behind increasing aerobic capacity would be beneficial to runners, and non-runners alike.

Q: Are there movements that are more of a challenge to coach than others?
A: Absolutely! I'm not sure if I can pick one specific movement because a lot of it depends on the athlete's limitation. For example, the Olympic lifts demand strength, stability, and mobility. If an athlete is lacking in one of these areas, it can be hard for them to make a correction; it isn't a lack of effort, just a lack of ability. This can be frustrating, which makes it more challenging to coach. However, the upside is, small improvements allow for huge rewards, which is the best part of coaching. 
 
Q: At the box, you have a workout named after you. How did that come about? Also, the rumor is, that it was originally supposed to be OverHead Walking Lunges and not Front Rack Walking Lunges. Is this true, and why did it change?
A: James does all of the programming at our box. If you've never traveled to other boxes, or worked out consistently somewhere else, we take for granted how well our programming is done. James spends a lot of time and effort making sure we're all well-rounded athletes, and spend adequate time focusing on every specialty. With that being said, sometimes Wodify likes to ignore his workouts and come up empty. So, one morning there wasn't a workout posted, so I created a workout. 

One aspect of CrossFit that I believe always need more emphasis is unilateral work. So I decided on lunges and double unders. We saw a weakness throughout our members, and they bitched for days about not being able to sit, stand, or lay down without their booty hurting (you're all welcome). After that, James decided to repeat this workout under my name! I did think about overhead walking lunges, but was later in the week, and I didn't want athletes with fatigued shoulders to lunge in an unsafe position. So, front rack it was!

Q: As one of the owners at Five Lakes CrossFit, what are your responsibilities around the box – other than coaching?
A: I'm responsible for planning and running our coaches meetings. Since we've been blessed with so many coaches recently, we are always trying to work together as well running team. Consistent meetings allow us to discuss upcoming events, ideas, schedule changes, and coaching tips and techniques. There so many benefits to sharing information with each other, and having a safe environment to ask questions and learn as a coach. 
 
Q: Is it a challenge having your husband work out at the box, particularly when you are coaching?
A: He's probably the better person to ask! He's one of the most naturally athletic people I've ever met. He picks up sports and movements quickly, which is something I'm unfamiliar with. So, I think the most challenging part is allowing him time to make corrections. I know that he's capable of making them, but I expect them to happen right away. I fully admit that I'm impatient with high expectations, which is my issue, not his!
 
Q: Have you had any limiting injuries, and how have you dealt with them?
A: I am thankful to have not had any serious, acute injuries. However, I would say my hyper extensive elbows are a chronic injury, that I have to rehab and assess constantly. I'm limited to the amount of overhead squat work that I do because I experience pain specifically in my right elbow. I have been doing more accessory work to strengthen the joint, as well as the surrounding muscles. I can say that my elbows are constantly improving, but I don't believe I'll see the day where I overhead squat pain-free. 

Q: Have you ever come across people who you cannot train for some reason?
A: Thankfully no! There are always some athletes that are resistant to coaches, for whatever reason. I've been in that situation before, where I feel like I'm giving cues to athletes who don't trust me, so they don't make the correction. It takes a lot of patience to keep chipping away at these athletes and build their trust. 
 
Q: You have been labeled as the nutrition guru in the box. Is this something you have studied, or is this more of an informal knowledge gathering?
A: Most of my nutritional knowledge is based on my own experiences. A lot of trial and error. I've worked with two different companies, RP Strength and Working Against Gravity, and learned from both. I'm constantly experimenting with my eating patterns to find what works for my body, and I'm happy to share my findings with anyone. 
 
Q: What is the simplest advice you can give to those of us who are nutritionally challenged?
A: Play with your nutrition! You have to find what works best for you, and your body. Some people respond well to very specific, regimented plans. Other people need variety and options. I'm the type of person who can eat the same food day in and day out, keeping with my schedule. Just because it works for me, doesn't mean it will work for everyone. So experiment, and enjoy!
 
Q: After a WOD some people are very tired during the day? Is this common? How do people overcome it?
A: I would say it's common, but not incurable. Nutrition plays a huge role in energy levels, especially when you're asking your body to perform at a high level day after day. If you're putting in the effort, without giving your body the correct fuel to repair and build, you'll feel run down and tired. That's why small changes in your nutrition can make such a large impact in the way you feel throughout the day.
 
Q: Do you take any days off from your meal prep? What is your favorite guilty pleasure (food wise)?
A: I very rarely take full days off from meal prepping. Part of the issue for me comes from not having food available when I get hungry and making impulse decisions. The other, more important reason is my health. I have a lot of issues with my stomach and food sensitivities, so eating outside of my routine makes me sick. It's a constant reminder that I'm committing to a healthy lifestyle. However, I would like to be able to enjoy an occasional cheat meal without having stomach pain. 

If I could have my dream cheat meal, it would be any type of fair food! Corn dogs, elephant ears, lemonade, all of it! I'm constantly watching Carnival Eats on TV, wishing I could try it all!
 
Q: When you stopped competing at gymnastics, did you have any challenges with the amount of time you suddenly opened up?
A: Definitely. When you're so involved in one sport for your lifetime, there's an identity crisis that comes with a sudden stop. Starting to dive helped, since I spent time training in a different atmosphere. Thankfully, my transition came at a time where I was able to drive, so I was able to go on adventures with my friends that I wouldn't have had time for beforehand. I also had the freedom to get where I wanted to go, and parents who were very trusting. Shortly after I quit, I also started dating Justin, so that took up a chunk of time as well.
 
Q: As a gymnast, do those type of movements come easier for you?
A: Yes and no. I think most people would be surprised to know that I'm a better gymnast (relatively) now than I ever was back in the day. Having a lifetime of focusing on where your body is in space has its benefits; but, I'm stronger now than I ever have been. This means I'm able to walk farther in a handstand walk than I ever could before, press to handstand, which I could never do as an athlete, and hold positions longer than I could before. So I do think I have an advantage, but being strong, well rounded, and taking care of my nutrition has played a bigger part. 

Q: If there was a repeat workout at the Granite Games, which one would you want it to be? Which one would you not want to see again?
A: Ironically enough, I'd love to repeat the sled push and running workout. I like that we were all working together towards a common goal, even though Liz and I probably did the least amount of work. If you asked the men, I'm sure they would NOT want to repeat this workout! And I wouldn't want to see the double under and dumbbell squat snatch workout. Dumbbell squat snatches are a movement that I'm unable to do at heavy weights, so Liz did them all. It's frustrating being out on the floor, and not being able to contribute. 
 
Q: Are you still learning who you are?
A: Always! In addition to constantly learning more about myself, I'm always trying to improve. Whether it's becoming more patient, less controlling, etc., I'm striving to become a better person. I also think that leads to change, which leads to more learning. It's an ongoing process.
 
Q: Have you always had a dog or other pets?
A: Growing up, we always had dogs (at least one, if not two). I also had a variety of rodents, with rats being my favorite. It sounds odd, but they're the most snuggly and well mannered!

Q: What would a day off look like for you?
A: Usually if I have a day off, I'm running errands. Food shopping, meal prepping, laundry, programming, all the fun things. I try to get most of my responsibilities taken care of during the week while Justin is at work since Sunday is the only day we have together (and that's not always a given). I like to imagine sleeping in, but that's not something I'm familiar with!
 
Q: Have you ever had something happen to you that you thought was bad but it turned out to be for the best?
A: Not that I can think of!
 
Q: What profession would you not like to do, and why?
A: There's a lot, but the thought of sitting at a desk all day overwhelms me. I am becoming more restless, and fidgety each day, so thinking about staring at a computer working with numbers makes my head hurt. Also, I couldn't imagine wearing real clothes. My stretchy pants and sweatshirts are too comfy to give up!
 
Q: What was the first thing you bought with your own money?
A: I will let you know when it happens! I have yet to make my first "adult" purchase. 

Q: Do you know your heritage? Where do your family come from originally?
A: Luckily enough, I do. I am 44% European Jewish, with the rest also being European. This is what I found from doing Ancestry DNA. From a family ties perspective, I know very little about my actual lineage. 
 
Q: What are your thoughts about all children having to have a trophy for turning up?
A: I can't say I have a well thought out opinion. From my experience, if you're not the best athlete, you don't get a participation trophy. I competed in a sport for years that only rewarded the top athletes, and I knew my place. I was expected to do my best each meet, knowing my best still would never earn me a top spot. It wasn't fun, but I knew that I had to work just as hard to be a mediocre athlete. Natural talent was not my gift! But hard work got me farther than a lot of athletes who let their fears get the best of them. 
 
Q: If you had a brainwashing machine, who would you use it on and why?
A: Hm... probably myself. I could use a couple of days of following without question. My control issues get the best of me, so I have a constant need to know exactly what is going on and when. I'm putting a lot of effort into being relaxed, and trusting others!

Q: Have you ever taken dance lessons? Who, other than your husband, would you want to dance with?
A: Other than dance to assist with gymnastics, I haven't taken dance lessons, but I would love to! I'm constantly trying to get Justin to take dance lessons with me; so far, it's been a solid no. This occasionally comes up in a conversation between Liz, James, Nic and I, and Nic has agreed to be my partner. I'm sure we could learn some sweet moves since Nic is so strong. Throws, and flips and turns. I'm all about it!
 
Q: If you could time travel, where would you go?
A: My instinct says Paris, in the 20's. If you haven't seen the movie "Midnight In Paris" it's worth the watch. The idea behind the movie is everyone has a different view of what era they would want to live in, depending on their current reality. Paris has an obvious place in my heart (since that's where Justin and I got married), and the 20's just looked so fun!
 
Q: If you could ask your pet three questions, what would they be?
A: I'm not sure I'd want to know the answers. I imagine Stanley being sarcastic and annoyed with me. I'm constantly squishing him, grabbing him, making him cuddle with me, and he cannot wait til Justin gets home to be saved. So, it's probably for the best that we communicate with kisses, instead of words.
 
Q: What three famous people, living or dead, would you want at your fantasy dinner party?
A: Celine Dion. Just her and I. She could sing to me all night in French, and it would be perfect (I wouldn't understand, but I would love it anyway).

Q: Who is your celebrity crush?
A: I can't think of one offhand!
 
Q: What fictional character do you wish you could meet?
A: Again, I don't think I can think of one. I can say, though, I'd love the opportunity to go to Hogwarts!
 
Q: QuickFire Round:
                Boots or sandals? Boots.
                Crushed ice or ice cubes? Cubes.
                Washing dishes or doing laundry? No thank you!
                “Angie” or “Jackie”? Angie.
                Which Disney Princess are you? Fiona from Shrek. Once the truth comes out, I can get "ugly"!
 
Q: What is your least favorite word?
A: Can't.
 
Q: Nominate someone for the next interview. It can be two if one is from another box.
A: Heather! She's such an inspiration and positive attitude at the box. She's also trusted our abilities through two separate injuries, and come out better for it in the end.
 
Q: Suggest a question to be asked of another interviewee?
A: What is your biggest fear.