Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
My name is Brian, I'm 26 and married with 2 little girls. I grew up in Queen Creek, AZ and partly Provo, UT.
 
Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
Growing up I was pretty active. I loved riding bikes and playing football in the park until I found my first love skateboarding. I skated from age 7-15. Once I got into highschool I started playing team sports and ended up focusing mostly on Football and Wrestling.
 
Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
I got into CrossFit in late 2012. I was stuck at a dead end desk job and stubbles across videos of the 2012 CrossFit Games. After watching a few videos I was hooked. Since being home from my Mission and being recently married I had kinda let myself go and weighed about 250 (I now weigh 210# and dropping). CrossFit re-ignited my for to better myself and attack my dreams.
 
Q: What is your role at your affiliate?
My role at our box is mostly coach. I do not have an official title but it ranges from manager, social media "dude", janitor and coach. 
We moved our family from Queen Creek, where I was coaching at a gym, to Provo specifically for Generator CrossFit. My role is to help the gym anyway that I can and do the things our owners don't have time to do so that our community can thrive.

Q: So is your position at the gym your full time job at this time? Do you do anything else? How much time do you put in there?
I work for Generator full-time. I also provided separate services aside from coaching and managing but it's all primarily for the members of our box. Depending on what needs to be done I put in anywhere from 30-50 hours a week.

Q: Do you program the workouts each day? If so, Do you have a process for that?
We program 1 week at a time every Sunday with myself and the 2 owners of our gym. For our strength cycle we choose 3-4 big lifts (squat, bench, deadlift, cleans, snatches, pressing ect.) and we follow the Wendler weekly percentages. As far as Met-Cons go we follow the template provided by CrossFit from the training guide.

Q: Have you completed any of the coaching certs?
I have only completed my CF-L1 cert

Q: What does a “typical” day look like for you?
A typical day for me
4:30am wake up
5am coach CrossFit class
6:30am coach Masters CrossFit class
7:30-9am first session of the day, some kind of engine work, mobility and performance care (hypertrophy stuff/corrective exercises)
9am coach CrossFit class
10am-Noon go home eat breakfast hang out with my wife and girls
Noon-4pm do chores around the house and take a nap :)
4-6pm hang out with the family and mobilize eat
6-8:30pm train we follow MisFit
8-30-11pm eat watch some Netflix get ready for bed
My life is pretty awesome!
