Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
I am Heather Dunn and I grew up in Novi, MI.
 
Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
I would say when I was a pre-teen I was active just doing neighborhood things like bike riding, playing baseball and football, roller skating, and walking to/from school and everywhere.  We were outside everyday playing some sort of sport or game.  Once I hit my teens my activity around the neighborhood decreased. In middle school and high school I wasn’t as active, but I did participate in ski club and played softball.   
 
Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
I was introduced to Crossfit by Glenn’s sister, Christina.  She had been doing Crossfit for a few years while living in the U.P. and was looking for a local box.  She had tried a few and really liked Five Lakes.  She talked Glenn and I into purchasing a Groupon to do the Group On Ramp in October of 2015.  I decided that I would do it just to get Glenn acclimated and then after the month I would quit.  I was so nervous and remember wanting to back out the first night because I knew I was so out of shape and didn’t want to look silly.  The first week I realized just how right I was that I was out of shape, but amazingly I didn’t feel silly about going.  Although there were so many people who were better than I was, the coaches and the athletes were so supportive, that all the things I was nervous about just faded away.  I ended up enjoying the workouts, enjoyed the pain my body was experiencing and looked forward to learning new movements each class. Once the On Ramp was over, it didn’t take much convincing to get me to sign up.  I’ve been loving it ever since.
            
Q: What did you want to be when you grew up? Or, what do you want to be when you grow up?
Growing up I wanted to be a cashier at the grocery store.  Before scanners, they would have to type in each item, and I just was amazed at how fast they could do it.  I would tell my mom I was going to work at Farmer Jack and be the fastest checkout there.  Unfortunately, technology stole that dream away….

Q: Have you visited any other boxes?
Sadly, no.

Q: Do you enjoy your job?
I do enjoy my job.  I am the Assistant to the Vice President of AFA Sales at Daifuku America Corporation.  I’ve worked for the company and for my boss for over 23 years.  I realize it’s a rarity to stay at a job for the amount of time I have.  One of the reasons I’m happy here is the flexibility I have with my schedule.  When my kids were in elementary school and it was important to me to be a part of their school-life, my boss supported me by allowing me to volunteer weekly in their classrooms, as well as giving me the time to act as the classroom parent, which required me to organize and attend all their classroom parties.  He also made sure I could attend all field trips, sporting events, concerts or presentations, which took place during my normal work hours. I appreciated having that kind of flexibility when I needed it. 
 
Q: You sustained a serious arm injury recently. How did that happen and did you continue to work out while it healed?
Yes, last year was a rough year for me, as I seemed to be prone to accidents.  In January, I had a slip and fall and broke my wrist which required surgery to implant a plate and screws.  Then in August, I had a bad arm extension that led to me breaking my humerus, which too required surgery to place a rod and screws in my arm.  A few days after my fall, I emailed Liz inquiring if I would be able to attend classes.  She confirmed that all the coaches would be happy to work with me and scale the workouts as needed.  This was for sure the best decision I could have made! I could do most of the WODs with simple changes that would keep me from using my right arm. Since I was doing my prescribed stretches to work on my mobility while at the box, the doctor dismissed me from having to attend physical therapy.  My doctor may have thought I was crazy for asking him at every appointment if I could lift more weight, but he was always very happy with my mobility progress and would tell me whatever I was doing was for sure working.  For me, continuing to work out was right answer.
 
Q: What did you do growing up that got you in to trouble?
Honestly, and I’m sure no one believes this, I was a pretty good kid and rarely got in trouble.  If I was in trouble, it was normally due to fighting with a sibling (older brother, younger sister), or doing poorly (C or lower) on a test or project for school.  
