Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up? 

Hi! I’m Jessica Christie. I’m 24 years old, and will be 25 in September. I grew up right here in Farmington Hills, Michigan. I currently live in my childhood home with my parents, my twin brother, and my crazy dog! I went away to college in Holland, Michigan, but came back when I finished my exercise science degree. I’m currently working the 5am shift at Trader Joe’s. It’s a job I really enjoy and keeps me active all day long. In the evenings of my day I spend it working out, or the occasional coaching right here at the box! My free time is spent with my family, my boyfriend, or my friends! I’m also a huge relaxer, and really value a nap and a good sudoku puzzle.
 


Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?

I definitely was. When I was younger, my mom had me try almost every sport. I was on t-ball and soccer teams for a couple years, but didn’t show much potential there. When I was six, my mom sent my brother and I to a gymnastics birthday party, and I loved it. My mom tried to get me to start lessons, but I was always too scared to go. I finally started gymnastics when I was seven, and did the sport until the end of high school. In the gymnastics world, I was not a good gymnast, but I was hardworking and very strong. 
It became my obsession, and pretty much took all my free time. Competitive gymnastics is year-round, and felt like a full-time job at the time! During the school year we worked out 24 hours a week, not including travel competitions on the weekends. In the summer, we’d train almost 40 hours a week, including 2-a-day training. Needless to say, I feel like I grew up in the gym.
 


Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?

I grew up and did gymnastics with coach Ali :) We were inseparable as kids! We kept in touch when I went away to college, and when I came home for breaks we’d always grab lunch. She started telling me about her Crossfit journey and expressed interest in opening a gym. Ali was convinced I’d love it but I felt I wouldn’t be good at the sport. I barely worked out in college and was completely out of shape. Five Lakes opened in November 2014, and I was their 7th founding member. I’ve fallen in love with this sport and haven’t looked back since!
 


Q: Not that you are old, but what do you miss most about being a kid?

I think most adults would agree that lack of financial responsibility is something desired about their childhood! Also, my grandparents had a Florida home, and we’d typically go there every winter. I have some wonderful memories of my grandfather and I just remember feeling so happy there with my whole family. Overall, I had such a good childhood, but I did suffer from childhood migraines from third grade to end of high school. I’d typically get them 2-4 times a week, and were so debilitating that once i got one I was useless for the rest of the day. Reflecting on it, I’d take being an adult over a kid any day!



Q: What do you see as your future in CrossFit?

I’m not entirely sure, to be honest! I know that I want to be the best athlete I can possibly be, and I want the journey to be a long one. My constant focus is showing up to class and to get a little better every day. I’m incredibly competitive with myself, so I’m always striving to get a PR on a lift or a better time on a WOD. At the beginning of the last two years, I’ve written down numbers on all my lifts that I want to hit before the year is over. I’d love to see where this sport takes me. Longevity is really what’s important to me. I want remain in shape and exercising for the rest of my life, ideally.
As far as coaching goes, I’m so excited to do more of it! As a coach, I’m focusing on developing a sharper eye for small details and building my confidence.
 


Q: This question might crossover with the one above, but do you see yourself moving in to a field that complements your degree, or do you have other future plans?

That’s a good question, and it’s one that brings me a lot of stress! Haha. I’m really happy with where I am right now, so I don’t feel obligated to change anything just yet. It’s all kind of a big question mark for me. Maybe one day I’ll go back to school, or maybe I’ll find myself coaching CrossFit full-time. I’ll figure it out one day, but for now I’m just taking it day by day :)
 


Q: How does your family, and boyfriend, feel about your CrossFit life?

My parents are and always have been incredibly supportive of everything I’ve done. I could place last at a competition and they’d still greet me with a smile and tell me how well I did. That’s just the kind of people they are. They’re happy because they know how happy the sport makes me. My brothers probably don’t think much of my CrossFit life since I grew up as the athlete in the family.

My boyfriend is very supportive as well. He probably thinks I talk about it too much, but always listens when I tell him about a tough WOD, or is proud of me when I tell him about a great day in the gym. I’m really a lucky girl.



Q: How would you go about convincing someone to give CrossFit a try?

I always start by telling people that everything is CrossFit is scaleable, and you don’t need to be “fit” to start the sport. There are coaches to guide you and encourage safe and efficient movement. CrossFit teaches body awareness, mental toughness, and the power of community building. It’s not hard to sell the sport when you feel so strongly about it. The hardest part I have convincing people about is the price. We as CrossFitters know it’s more than worth it, but telling that to someone who pays a $10 gym membership fee is much trickier. I’m still working on my inner saleswoman :)



Q: You recently took a vacation. Do you workout or is that rest time?


It really just depends on how I’m feeling. If I’m feeling a little burned out before I start my vacation, I’ll take that time to fully relax and try to let my body and mind recover. If  I don’t feel like I need a break or if I’m feeling too lazy on my vacation, I’ll work out. I’ll usually do some home WODs that don’t require equipment, or I’ll go to an Anytime Fitness since I have a membership there. Sometimes I will try a CrossFit box, depending on proximity and time.



Q: Do you ever get in to a workout and start to question if you can do it? 
If so, what's your secret for keeping going?
Rarely ever. I almost always have a strategy before going into a WOD, and I can usually stick with it. It might not always go to plan, but I adjust. I’m pretty good at giving myself some tough love when I feel I’m mentally struggling through a WOD. I often remind myself that the faster I work, the sooner I’m done. Not sure if that’s the best mindset, but it seems to work for me.



Q: Which other boxes have you tried, and how do they compare to your home box?

I have only tried two other boxes, both times being in Florida when I was there for vacation. The first time was during the open in 2016, and I had to do 16.3 at their box. I went during open gym, so there weren’t too many people there, but everyone was extremely friendly. The owner of the gym spent a great deal of time trying to help me get a bar muscle up. I was unsuccessful, but he spent at least an hour helping me out. He also wasn’t going to charge me for my visit, but I insisted on at least buying a shirt. Really, really cool box and owner. The second box I went to was a normal class, and everyone was extremely nice. It was pretty similar compared to Five Lakes, but no compensations at the end.

It’s hard to compare any box to Five Lakes, because it’s comfortable to me and feels like home. But one of the most comforting things about CrossFit is the universal importance of community. It’s so awesome to be a part of that.



Q: Do you have a preferred time for working out?
Yes, 9:30am. That’s the time I go on Tuesdays when I have the day off work. The rest of the week I work out at 4:00pm, which I've really grown to enjoy. 

Q: You get to program for day. What would it be?
For the strength work, I’d do either a 5x5 of strict shoulder press or bench press. The WOD would be a 10-minute AMRAP of handstand walks, a lighter hang power clean (95/65), and burpees. 

Q: Do you get sore after a workout? What do you do for it?
I definitely get sore after a workout! I often use my foam roller or a tennis ball to roll out, and I stretch. Above all else, I just try to stay moving and avoid sitting for long periods of time.
 
Q: What is the worse injury you have had?
It's a close tie between my right elbow and left wrist. I had to have surgery on both of them, but my wrist definitely gives me more problems to this day. My elbow happened when I was young, so it was easier to heal. I still have the pins and plate in my wrist, and it can often hurt with a lot of volume of overhead work or push-ups.

Q: You always have a sunny, positive disposition in the box. Is that how you always are, or is this something you work at?

This makes me so happy that you say this, because it’s really something I’ve been working on. The last two years I’ve really dialed in on my mentality. Growing up I’d say I was a pessimist, and I don’t think I realized how negative my mind really was. When I find myself being negative, I try to change my perspective and look at it from a different angle. I don’t always succeed, but I think it’s something everyone struggles with from time to time. I’m overall a much happier person now. I have been so incredibly lucky in my life, and I really am so grateful. I’m healthy, loved, and get to do what I love every day. How could I not be happy?



Q: What would be your advice to others about changing around their outlook as you described above? 
Is it something you have to continually work on?
It is definitely something I have to continually work on. My advice is to actively think about your thoughts. It sounds silly, but I think sometimes we don’t realize how negative some of our thoughts can be. When I find myself thinking negatively, I try to replace it with something positive. Looking at the brighter side of a situation is what really helps me. I think it is important to understand that negative thoughts are okay, as long as you don’t linger on them for too long. We need a balance of the two in order to stay realistic.

Q: What is on your music playlist right now?
Lately I’ve been listening to my music library on shuffle, so a variety of things! Hip-hop and R&B are my favorite genres, so you can pretty much always find me listening to that. If I get to pick the Pandora station at the box, it’s almost always Kanye West radio :)



Q: Other than relaxing as you mentioned earlier, how else do you spend your time outside of the box? 
Aside from working, that is.
I spend quite a bit of time with my family, friends, and my boyfriend. I don’t have too many friends that live in the metro Detroit area, so I spend a decent amount of time talking on the phone. I’ve been working to become a better cook, which my boyfriend is helping me with. I really enjoy listening to music and being on my computer. Honestly, most of my favorite activities are relaxing to me. Sudoku puzzles, napping, reading, taking walks, watching my favorite TV shows, and laying in the sun are some of my favorite things to do. A lot of people joke with me that I’m a 24-year old in an 80-year old’s body. I embrace it.



Q: What question do you hate to answer?
“Why are you so quiet?” is a question I receive pretty often that I really don’t enjoy. I’ve never been a talker, and talk when I really want or need to. Being asked this question often has sparked my insecurity of being shy, but as I’ve gotten older I don’t view it as such a bad thing. The world needs listeners just as much as it needs talkers.



Q: Would you rather win the CrossFit Games, an Olympic medal, an Academy Award or the Nobel Peace prize?
Nobel Peace prize! But CrossFit Games is a definite close second.

Q: What is your favorite movie quote?
“There’s no place like home” -Dorothy from Wizard of Oz. As a serious introvert and true homebody, she couldn’t be more right. Also, Wizard of Oz was one of my favorite movies when I was little.

Q: What fictional character would you like to meet, and why?
Spongebob Squarepants. My absolute favorite cartoon growing up and still makes me laugh really hard to this day. Spongebob is an optimist, a hard-worker, and hilarious. Those are some of favorite qualities in people.

Q: OK, so I think we all need to know, what are your favorite TV shows?
The Office, Parks and Recreation, Spongebob Squarepants, Friends, Family Guy, Brooklyn 99, Chopped, The Great British Baking Show, and Adventure Time. I really like anything that’ll make me laugh and keep me relaxed, so if anyone has any recommendations I’d love to hear them!

Q: If you could have personally witnessed anything, what would it have been?
I honestly can’t think of anything off hand. It probably would’ve been pretty cool to witness dinosaurs walking the earth, just as long as I wasn’t considered food :)

Q: What is the strangest thing you have eaten?
Alligator. I realize it’s not strange for most people, but I’m far from an adventurous eater.

Q: Would you be willing to eat a bowl of crickets for $40,000?
I’d like to this so!
 
Q: Which celebrity chef would you like to make you a meal?
I wouldn't care who it was, as long as they made me something delicious!
 
Q: What is your favorite knock knock joke?
I don't have one :( I haven't heard one that's actually made me laugh before.
 
Q: List someone you know and describe them in 5 words.
My dad: easy-going, funny, smart, and loving.
 
Q: Are you a good dancer?
I’d like to think I am, but I’m far from! I took dance growing up for gymnastics, and took modern dance classes in high school. I had so much fun, but never really got the hang of it.
 
Q: What superpower would you want?
Teleportation! I have so many places in the world I’d like to see, and teleportation would make it so easy.

Q: What are you good at? (Other than CrossFit)
As far as hobbies go, I don’t think I’m good at too many things. However, I do think I’m good at organizing, time management, listening, living in the moment, and not being judgmental.

Q: What three items would you want if stranded on a desert island?
Full tank of gas, a helicopter, and a pilot!

Q: Quickfire Round:
                Dresses or skirts? Dresses
                Mayonaise or Miracle Whip? Mayonaise
                Freckles or dimples? Dimples
                Ski lodge or surf camp? Ski lodge
                “Coe” or “Collin”? Coe
                Workout or Coach? both :)

 
Q: Nominate someone to be interviewed. It can be more than one, as long as they are at different boxes.
I’d love to hear an interview from Nic Johnston. He spends so much time at our gym, as well as many other gyms! I know he is incredibly knowledgeable about CrossFit and would love to hear his perspective on things.

Q: Suggest a question to ask another interviewee.
If you could go back and relive a moment in your life, what would it be and why?
