Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up? 
My name is Kathryn Lesko, I'm a personal trainer and crossfit coach at the North oakland YMCA crossfit. I grew up in Stockbridge, Michigan.  

Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
i don't think I was really active. I never played sports I wanted to but never got the support from my parents to do so. However I did ride my bike a lot and hike in our woods but that's about it. 
 
Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
i got introduced in 2011 while I was an intern at the North Oakland YMCA. I was hooked immediately. 
 
Q: What is your role at North Oakland YMCA CrossFit?
I am one of the head trainers. I meet with potential new members and make the decision what would be appropriate for them to start at for their fitness level
 
Q: Does having CrossFit part of a YMCA facility make it any different to other boxes?
I believe so. I think that because we are at the YMCA it's already a different crowd that we advertise to. no one here wants to go to the games. Everyone is here to push themselves. They understand the importance of fitness and are on time restraints due to work. 

Q: How do you program workouts? Daily, or with a multi-week strategy? Or something else?
We follow the 3 week program here at the YMCA. Holly and I both mainly plan WODs, however with our increasing schedules we have been utilizing our other coaches as well. 

Q: What is your philosophy when programming?
Variety. Always making sure there is variety. Simple movements to complex. Short to long. Holly and I usually program together. This allows us to get a second opinion on what we do so that it's not too lopsided on my likes or hers. We make a good partnership.

Q: What is the hardest workout you have ever programmed?
Lol we just made a recent one. It had a big metabolic component. Shuttle Sprints hurdle jumps Mt climbers and a 100 m sprints.in my mind 15 rounds seems doable.... (Old me before baby) then we got started. In the end 10 rounds was enough. It's the ones that don't look so bad that are the worst. 

Q: What are you looking for when you coach?
Form FORM FORM.  Making sure that people are using the correct form. If the client can not perform the movement correctly an alternat movement will be given similar to that movement but much safer for the client until they can show sufficient movement. There is so many other things I look for but form is number 1 
 
Q: Are there any reasons that you would not take on an athlete for coaching?
No I am a personal trainer as well... some clients do need to start on an one on one level to start, usually someone with special conditions, weather it be health or disability or a complete lack of body awareness. So they can still learn movements popular to crossfit but with full attention to what modifications they need. Once we both are comfortable with their progress I first shadow them in class then graduate them to the open class.
 
Q: You recently got married, and had a baby. Did you slow down during this time, and if so, was it difficult having to do so?
My marriage didn't slow me down, actually my husband was a great support in helping me stay active while I was pregnant , well as much as I could. During my pregnancy I had really bad morning sickness, this interfered with all my training. It took everything I had just to make it to work.... I was not consuming enough calories so my focus was on trying to make sure the first trimester was ok for the baby in the form of not over exerting myself. Once I started feeling better in the second trimester the morning sickness took its toll. I had lost a lot of muscle mass and endurance, so slowing down was hard, and even harder in the third trimester when I could only talk about the stuff I use to be able to do. But I kept my focus on my pregnancy. I had been waiting 13 years for it.  

Q: Has it been challenging to get back in to shape after the birth?
Yes I still think I can do the workout the same way I use to. I know I am hard on myself and my expectations are high for my return, that's why I love my group so much. They know not to push me, hey I'm competitive so they don't challenge me they help me see how far I have come in the weeks after having my baby. I also have to worry about milk supply. As a trainer I get looked at physically, it's my job really I get judged every day, I am still hillsong onto about 10-15# but I can not cut body fat or push to hard or my milk supply goes down. I also have to watch my calories. If I do  a WOD I increase my calorie intake by about 500 calories. I'd love to cut my body fat quicker but milk is more important. I am however happy wi my strength gains, 12 weeks post and I am about 80% back to the weights I was lifting. 

Q: Is CrossFit open to anyone? Do they have to be fit to start? Why? 
Crossfit is open to anyone and everyone. No you do not need to be "fit" to start, just willing to take direction and start where you are and be willing to get uncomfortable! If you say I'm going to wait till I'm in shape for  crossfit, let me tell you,  you will always e waiting till your fit enough. Your never really ready for crossfit until you do crossfit. There is just nothing else out there that will get you the same results. 
 
Q: With a teenager and a new baby, how do you manage your schedule? 
Lol, my husband is a blessing. He really does help out with the baby. And my teen, well she does everything I do. We defiantly work as a family unit and we all pitch in. We also work out together (minus the baby .... for now ) Crossfit fits into my schedule because I only need an hour. To be honest I don't get to work out as much as I use to but 5, one hour a week classes works so much better than anything that I ever use to do.
 
Q: Is time management more of a challenge with a husband, teenage and baby in the mix?
Absolutely, but my husband and I make a great team and both chip in. Some days I wonder how he gets it all done. He works two jobs and goes to school full time 
 
Q: How closely do you manage your nutrition? Calorie count, or more?
Closely currently. I need to maintain 2000-2500 calories per day to produce adaquet amount of breast milk.its a pain in the butt but it's worth it.

Q: Do you set yourself goals? 
Goals- I'm guessing your talking about fitness goals... of course. Currently my goal is to be back doing every WOD RX by October. That's 5 months after I had Adalynn.... by the end of the year I'd like to smash my deadlift pr from before pregnancy then maybe next year a competition.
 
Q: You mentioned competing next year. How many times have you competed, and what are your plans? Solo? Partner?
I have done mostly local competitions probably a total of maybe 8 so far. I was even sponsored to the the Disney Fit competition in 2014. I placed 10th over all (out of 30) but first in my age group. I'd like to do a competition with my husband I think that would be fun. Or an old school team WOD. I don't like the idea of a team when everyone has to do the same thing. (I'd rather just go solo) teams should be able to utilize their individual Strengths to help the team.

Q: What do you see for yourself going forward with CrossFit?
Help many more people achieve a level of fitness they never dreamed possible.

Q: Did you meet your husband through CrossFit, or did you pull him into it?
I pulled him into it. However I did meet him at the gym. We like working out with each other, when we get the chance. He just likes to pick things up and put them down lol
 
Q: Did I understand correctly, that your teen is doing CrossFit too? How is she finding it?
Yes Alana is doing CrossFit.... She really doesn't get the choice. Since the lack of physical activity at school has greatly dropped and her favorite past time is reading the least I can do is keep her active. She hates running but she is crazy strong. And loves it when she hits new weight PR's 
 
Q: If you could back and be a teenage again, would you?
Ha ha ha NO, HECK NO. I have been through many trials and tribulations in my life. They have shaped me into the person I am today, a stronger person both physically, mentally and spiritually. This allows me to help others. Plus teenages have it so much different now than when I was a teen... Wow I can't believe I just said that.

Q: What is the biggest lesson you want to pass on to your kids?
To be good people. Better than I am.
To stay active and always challenge yourself and if someone say you can't then prove them wrong.

Q: What sounds or noise to you love? 
My baby laughing/talking. A cats purring. The sounds of more weight being put on a bar. The grunts/screams of my clients seeing/feeling their fitness goals coming true.
 
Q: If you were told you could no longer do your current job, what would you do instead?
Ah.... Lol the same thing somewhere else. No really I love what I do. If there was some physical limitation, in which I would not be able to anymore I'd like to be a life coach. Helping people get through trials in life yet not be as pushy as a therapist.
 
Q: Pick a song that would represent you the best and explain why.
 Humm... That's hard. I can tell you more my Moto. Free by Zac Brown Band. To love the one your with and be happy travel, experience life. And not care about the material things to live free with the one /ones I love.

Q: What is your biggest mental challenge? 
Currently knowing where I was physically before baby and still where I currently am after baby. I feel like I can do the things I use to but then 3-2-1 go..... And I feel the differencr. So making sure I set up appropriately.
 
Q: What is something you have always wanted to try but have been too scared to?
Lol if I can think it up I try it 
 
Q: Other than the gym, where is your happy place?
Where ever I can be with my hubby relaxing. 

Q: If the average human life span was 40 years, how would you live your life differently?
Wow.... That would suck. I'd retire. I wouldn't have had a second child. Who would take care of her.?!? I don't know really. But that's a depressing thought.

Q: If heaven exists, what would you like to hear God say when you arrive at the pearly gates?
I've done a good job raising my daughters into becoming great people.

Q: Quickfire Round:
   Scrambled eggs or over easy eggs? Over easy
   Tie or no tie? No tie
   Country or Rock and Roll? Country
   Piano or Guitar? Guitar
   Open 12.2 or Open 14.4?  14.4

Q: Are you still singing? 
Just at home
 
Q: Nominate another person for an interview? You can nominate two if they are from more than one box.
Gail Vires

Q: Suggest a question to ask another interviewee.
What works do you dislike the most?