Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up? 
Hi there, its Coach Liz! I grew up in Farmington Hills. I actually lived in the same house (where my mom and Michael still live today!) my entire life until college.

I went to Beechview Elementary School, East Middle School, and Harrison High School. Got my degrees in Biology and Secondary Education at Michigan State. I lived in South Carolina for two years after college where I taught high school science. Then I moved back to Royal Oak, until I moved back to Farmington Hills when we opened the box.
 
Q: Were you active growing up, and if so, how?
I was extremely active growing up! Pretty much since I could walk I've been involved in some kind of organized activity from tap dance to soccer and everything in between. I'll take this opportunity to try to remember all the things I've done although was a master of none...I mentioned tap dance, soccer, softball, swimming, track (shot put, not running ew), volleyball, and ballet/modern dance. 

I also have lots of memories of working out with my mom from a very young age. We did Buns of Steel together! We did home Yoga, P90X, Tae Bo, and Wii Fit. We went to the YMCA regularly and to hotel gyms when we were on vacation. Our family vacations have always been centered around outside and recreation. We hiked wherever we went.

In between all of that I remember being outside a lot. I would make my friends meet me on our bikes or on rollerblades somewhere half way between our houses instead of having our parents drive us. I know that's going to come as a shock to some. (Seriously though, those rollerblades I cruised into class with the other night I found at my mom's house from like middle school.) 

Q: From your last answer, it appears pretty obvious you are very close to your mom. Can you describe that relationship in 10 words or less?
My mom is first my mother, then my best friend.
 
Q: When did you get in to Crossfit, and how?
I got into CrossFit in 2011. I was living in South Carolina and a friend of mine wouldn't shut up about CrossFit. I was intrigued by the idea, but very intimidated. He told me I'd be good at it and my curiosity drove me to take the leap one day. My first CrossFit class was at CrossFit Reaction in Greenville, South Carolina. It was a small, hot little box, and it was PACKED. I loved the people right away. I was like omg why are all these super cool people being so nice to me?? Anyway, they were having a "gymnastics day". So we were practicing strict pull ups and strict toes to bar. I could do neither. At all. I tried once and then spent the rest of the hour watching my room mate crush out reps of both (she was a very small, strong ex gymnast who hadn't worked out in about 5 years but I guess that stuff just comes naturally to some people!). They didn't have an On Ramp program and I don't really remember them having any alternative movements for me to do so I just sat there trying to do strict gymnastics for an hour! I'm honestly not even sure what brought me back but I went again, this time without my room mate (she said it wasn't really her thing) and then I kept going forever.

When I moved back to Michigan in 2012, James had started coaching at CrossFit Bloomfield. I kinda had a thing for him so I spent a lot of time there. That's when my strength and technique really started to progress. I had wonderful coaches in SC but with James' coaching my training became focused. I wasn't just working out, I was following a program. He taught me how to avoid the "butt tuck" at the bottom of my squat. He and I sometimes reminisce about my tendency to be a less-than-willing pupil in the beginning. It was hard for me to be coached by someone who I was so close to. I slowly realized that my ego wasn't helping me get better so I just shut up and started listening to him and for the first time I saw myself as someone who was more than just ok at something. When I played soccer, I wasn't a "soccer player". I danced, but I was never a "dancer". I started to see myself as a CrossFitter. 

As a teacher + CrossFit athlete, I don't think it was ever in the cards to NOT become a coach. It was an obvious transition, as if I had started CrossFit with the intention of becoming a coach from the very beginning. I think I'll end my answer to this question here. I feel like I could go on and on about my journey since becoming a coach but I'm wandering from the original question.

Q: How did Five Lakes Crossfit come about?
In 2012 I moved back to Michigan after teaching high school science in South Carolina for a couple of years. My living situation changed unexpectedly, so I was faced with either finding a place to live in time for the upcoming school year to start, or take it as a sign that it was time to move back home. I had a lot to move home for (James included), so I decided on the latter. As I mentioned before, James had started coaching at CrossFit Bloomfield, and when I started going there, their members just raved to me about what an amazing coach James is. 
 
James had been coaching Ali for a few months at this point, and Ali confided in me later that she had been thinking about leaving the box before James came around. His friendship and coaching influenced her to stay. I remember getting a text from James while I was living in SC about Ali. He was like "Check out this video of my friend getting her first muscle up. She does this really cute victory dance afterward." So I actually got to see Ali's first muscle up from across the country and she did indeed dance a little victory jig at the end! So Ali and I had gravitated toward each other when I started up at CFB. We noticed that we got very similar scores for many of the workouts, and started partnering up for things. 
 
Ali and I decided to get our L1 certifications at the same time. Then the three of us had gotten very close, and we began talking about what it would be like to open our own box. The rest is history!

Q: Since founding Five Lakes CrossFit, what have you learned that you would like to go back and change?
If I could go back I'd have acted more frugally with the upfront costs of opening the business. Not much else I would change. I'm always learning but I don't tend to second guess myself.
 
Q: What have you done to become a better business owner?
This one was a tough question to get started on. In the beginning, I wasn't a business owner at all. I was a coach who happened to own a business. That's how I felt and how I acted. Throughout this journey as I've tried to become better at everything...a better coach, business owner/partner, athlete, girlfriend, room mate, person etc., the common theme has been empathy. For every situation I encounter, the solution begins with my ability to empathize with the people involved. Whether its my business partners, my athletes, or any prospective members. Leaving my ego at the door applies to far more than the WODs we come here for. I've had to learn to let go of some control, ask for help, ask for advice, and then actually take it. The more brain power involved, the more hands you have on a project, the easier it gets. The better it turns out. I think some of my best moves as a business owner have involved delegating tasks/projects to people who are better qualified than I to do them.

Q: It seems like every time we turn around there is a new coach – Kat, Eric, Jess, and others. Is this something you hoped to have happen? Are you glad it is happening?
Our goal in the very beginning was to have a team of coaches. We're absolutely thrilled that these amazing people not only chose to do their fitness with us, but have invested their time in becoming certified and now coach for us! Hiring within our own community is a dream come true. 
Just to shout out the people who coach for us regularly or from time to time, here is our full team: Bruce, Ali, James, Kat, Cindy Persitz, Jess Christie, Eric Twigg, Steve Wiemero (TACFIT), Jon Hearsch, Will Lebiedz, Nic Johnston and myself.
 
Q: Any plans you have for the box that you can share?
Well, as you all know we just began revamping the look of the lounge area. Now that the painting is done we plan to tear up the carpet and have polished concrete floors. Down the road I'd love to update the bathrooms. And coming soon we do in fact have a pretty cool project that we're working on, but I'll save that as a surprise! 

Q: What does a “typical” day look like for you?
On days that I work the evening classes, I try to sleep until around 8 or 9. When I wake up I feed and let out my pack of dogs, and have breakfast. I usually have some box-related tasks to complete whether its responding to emails or ordering materials. I do any necessary programming for the Kids and Teens classes. I try to clean at least one room in the house every day. I do a little meal prepping and pack up all my food for the day. I take the pack for a long walk, bike or rollerblade. When its time to come to the box, I've been riding my bike! Once I'm there, you know the rest! I'm either coaching or taking a class. I get home between 8:30 and 9:30 depending on whether there was an On Ramp class that night.
 
Q: On a similar line, if you are not at the box, what do you like to do to relax?
I have a hard time "truly" relaxing. I used to really enjoy reading, and I still do, but it has started to make me sleepy so I can't do that for long periods of time. So I often have to create situations in which I am forced to relax. I schedule massages, see movies or on very rare occasions, I'll get mani/pedis. Activities that I enjoy which are not box-related but I would consider more mental relaxation than physical, are working in the yard, playing volleyball, and as I mentioned, biking and rollerblading. I like working with my hands, so often James will come home to me spread out working on some project or another. My most recent idea was to build cheap wooden barbells and wooden plates for my CrossFit Kiddos. So if you see me at the box with a jig saw, that's me relaxing.
 
Q: You got your L1 cert. What other certs do you now have, and what are your plans for coaching certs going forward?
I have my CrossFit L2 cert, CrossFit Kids cert, TACFIT and FlowFit certs! I would eventually love to take the Pregnancy & Postpartum Functional Strength Course , and also the CrossFit Specialty Course: Masters. Those two courses would round out the "Stages of Life" theme my coaching path has taken.
 
Q: What is your most challenging aspect of being a coach and crossfit athlete?
For me, being a coach and an athlete transition seamlessly with each other. That's the beauty of the community we have at the box.
 
Of course there are little things that I think about as a coach which affect my athlete-self; like not being too competitive, not comparing myself to others, etc. I feel like I take extra care to leave my ego at the door, because that's what I want for my athletes; to train without the burden and barrier of ego. It doesn't always work. I'm still human and I want to be the best! But I think everyone grapples with those things, coach or not. 
 
Sometimes as a coach I can get frustrated when one of my athletes doesn't care as much about their progress as I do.  As an athlete, I spend time and energy working toward my goals, and when people aren't motivated to do the same, it can be frustrating. Those people usually don't last very long at our box so that feeling is few and far between.
 
More challenging was learning how to be a business owner, and not just a coach/athlete. Being one doesn't make you the other, as nice as that would be!
 
Q: What’s your approach to coaching the kids? Is it different to the way you work with the teens?
With the kids the goal is to move from one activity to the next before they are done having fun. Always keep them wanting more. The trick is to plan more activities than you think will fit into an hour. That way if they lose interest you'll never run out of things to do. Sometimes they get really into something and i don't even get to all the things I wanted to. Then i just save those things for the next class. I never worry too much about the amount of material we get through, the priority is that they have a great time and associate exercise with fun. 

Q: What advice do you have for someone who struggles with their nutrition?
Firstly, eat what makes you feel good. On a good diet (for YOU), the majority of the time you should feel energetic and alert during the day, able to sleep well/regularly at night, not be bloated, and not be starving. This will look different for everyone, regardless of what any diet guru tells you. (I can eat gluten and feel fine, whereas James experiences adverse affects. Most people can have a drink or two on the weekends and feel great the next day, but I have trouble sleeping even after one drink.)

Beyond that, have an easy set of menu items prepared as far in advance as possible. For example, chicken and sweet potatoes, ground turkey and rice, yogurt and apples. They may not be the most exciting meals you have, but if they're readily available you'll have something to reach for when you're hungry or short on time. 
 
Q: Last year, four of you went off and competed at the Granite Games. You’re going back this year. What did you learn from last year’s experience that will help this time?
The fact that I love partner/team competitions over individual competitions was reinforced. Its just SO much fun working together and supporting each other. More specifically, I learned that I need to work hard on legless rope climbs and muscle ups! Haha...

In general, because the four of us went into last year expecting only OUR best and not to place any certain way, we were all very happy with our performance individually and as a team. I think we'll have the same mindset this year, but I suspect we'll place even higher than last year, simply as a side effect of mental and physical growth.
 
Q: How do you manage spending so much time with James each day? Does it affect your relationship?
Honestly, whenever I sit back and think about the amount of time we spend together, I'm always in awe that we don't get sick of each other. But we really don't! I mean, we live and work together, but we have also developed a mutual friend group and choose to spend our free time together, whether its just the two of us or with a group. We genuinely enjoy and have fun training together. One of our favorite things is having sushi date nights after Thursday evening classes after we've coached together all night. 

Neither of us feels like coaching in the same building counts as "together" time. So its not a stretch to want to spend time together outside of work.
Having said all that, I know its only possible because of our ability to take our alone time when we want it. We have dinners and movie nights with friends separately and neither of us is ever sour when one of us wants some alone time with them. We are disgustingly cute and actually miss each other when one of us spends the night away (pause for gagging). But we truly are very independent. I have all my hilarious hobbies taking the dogs bike riding or rollerblading, and he likes to go to the movies by himself sometimes. I like to watch Netflix in bed with Kodi before I fall asleep, and he likes to read and cuddle Mac in his favorite recliner downstairs. 

I'm laughing to myself as I answer this question because as intimate as this feels, its nothing you guys haven't witnessed firsthand at the box! Hahaha...
 
Q: If you could throw any type of party what would it be?
I'll answer this question with a story. My birthday is in the fall, and I LOVE the fall. I love the weather, the smell, the activities, carving pumpkins, picking apples, drinking cider, eating donuts, Halloween costumes -- YAAS! In 7th grade, my dad told me I could invite all my friends over to his house and have a party and do whatever activities I wanted. Well, I wanted to have a pumpkin carving contest. We would divide up into teams and then my dad would judge the products and give out prizes. I was so excited to combine my very own birthday celebration with one of my favorite fall activities. So we bought a bunch of pumpkins and everyone came over, and we started doing the thing. I was obviously taking it super seriously but I started looking around and my friends were NOT as into it as I was. I started panicking. People began to abandon their carvings and instead throw the pumpkin guts at each other and around the yard, which may sound like fun now, but at the time it was just the beginning of a failed party idea. Then it started snowing and everyone was freezing. So we went inside and watched a movie, and then the party was over at like 4pm. 

So, to answer the question, if I could throw any type of party, I would throw a really awesome SUCCESSFUL one where everybody had a REALLY good time.

PS. I just remembered that for my last birthday (yep my 28th) I made James and both of our families pick out and carve pumpkins. I must not have been THAT scarred from my 7th grade fiasco. And I'm really lucky to have found someone who supports my passion for jack-o-lanterns.

Q: What one exercise do you not want to turn up in a workout?
Running.

Q: What was the last experience that made you a stronger person?
When I think of something making you stronger, there is an assumption that the experience was probably a hard one. I've had a pretty blessed life. Everyone faces challenges but its all relative. Instead of trying to think of the last really hard thing I went through (because lets face it; I've never fought in a war, been without a roof over my head or gone hungry), I'll tell you something awesome. My relationship with my mom and the inspiration I get from her. She has shown me by example that if you want something you can get it as long as you never give up. The faith I have in that makes me stronger every day. 
That and back squats.

Q: Is there a chore do you absolutely hate doing?
I hate taking out the trash!

Q: What is your favorite movie and why? How about book?
I've seen a lot of good movies lately, but I'm always terrible at answering this question! As soon as I try to think of the last really good movie I saw, I draw a blank. So, I'm going with the live action remake of Peter Pan starring Jeremy Sumpter. I just love the beautiful graphics and the kids that star in it are so perfect and beautiful and it makes me yearn for eternal youth. (I do believe in fairies! I do! I do!)

The book question is easy. A Wrinkle in Time. Its a young adult novel that I used to read over and over, and I've never been as engrossed in books as I was while I was reading the series by Madeline L'Engle. Its a fantasy/science fiction series and if you ever want an easy but intriguing read, give them a try.

Q: If you were immortal for a day, what would you do?
I would do all the stuff I'm really scared of doing like sky diving, bungee jumping, basically everything that has to do with heights! 

Q: What sound do you love?
I love the sound of thunderstorms. 

Q: If you had to change your first name, what would you change it to?
I can't think of one! I have always liked my name because it has a Z in it. And people call me fun nicknames like Lizzy and Lizard.

Q: Is a picture worth a thousand words? Elaborate.
I think you can see things in a picture that can't be expressed in words. I also think images can elicit emotions that words can't. I always think of this picture of James and I from a long time ago. You could tell we were in love even back then.

Q: Quickfire Round:
                Apples or Oranges? apples
                Fingers or Toes? fingers
                Star Wars or Lord of the Rings? LOTR
                “Jackie” or “Mary”? Jackie
                “Badger” or “White”? White
 
Q: Nominate another person to be interviewed. You can nominate two, but one must be from a box other than Five Lakes.
I nominate Jen Charlesworth. A CrossFit L1 trainer, CrossFit Kids trainer and owner/coach at CrossFit Tuebor in Fenton. 
Also, Heather Dunn from Five Lakes CrossFit!
 
Q: What question do you want me to ask another interviewee?
I came up with two:
What were you in a past life?
What is your spirit animal and why?