Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
Hi! I'm Pam VanValkenburg. I grew up in Southfield, and attended Birmingham Groves High School. I went to Oakland University, where I met my husband, Jim, and I eventually went on to receive my Masters from The University of Michigan. Though I received my degrees, I did not work long in my field of Industrial Hygiene, as I elected to be a stay at home mom.  I currently work part time within the Farmington Public Schools.  I've been married 29 years and have 2 boys, Justin, who is married to Coach Ali, and Jared, who will be leaving for the Air Force in October.
 
Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
I was very active growing up!  I was always playing pick up games of basketball, football, and baseball with the boys in the neighborhood.  As a youth, I played on the first organized girls baseball team in Michigan. I also played basketball for the Parks and Rec League, and then in middle school and high school.  I also got into soccer when I was in high school, and ended up playing for Oakland University's first women's club soccer team.

After having kids, I tried different exercise programs such as kick boxing, aerobics, and Jazzercise, but nothing held my interest.

Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
Jim and I started CrossFit in October 2015.  I should have started when they first opened, but I was intimidated and made a lot of excuses. I finally had enough of not feeling well, and decided to give it a try, plus I wanted to support Ali and Justin by joining Five Lakes. I had never lifted heavy weights before, but I really liked it. I found the workouts really tough, but I felt great, and had a lot more confidence.  I try to go 3 to 4 times a week.  It's really been the best thing I have done for myself!
 
Q: The Powerball lottery is up to $700M tonight. What would you do if you won it?
Wow, that would have been nice!  If I would win the Powerball, I would probably sell our house, make sure our kids are taken care of, give some to our brothers and their families, and of course, take care of our moms. I would buy another house in the area, but would also look at buying some vacation property. Travel would be nice, and I would also give to charity.

Q: You mentioned the challenge of starting CrossFit, which is something I’ve heard from multiple people. How do we change that perception for people?
I think if we can educate people that CrossFit isn't just what you see with the Games athletes, that would be a step in the right direction.  That would be very intimidating thinking that you would have to live up to those standards if you join CrossFit.  Making sure CrossFit HQ and boxes don't just focus on their elite athletes, but also look at their beginners, master athletes, and anyone in between are aware that scaling and modifying movements are available is another step in the right direction. The Five Lakes coaches all do a great job at this.

Q: As you were always active, did this lead your boys in to that path naturally?
Yes, both Jim and I were active as kids. When our boys were young, we introduced them to many different activities and sports.  As I mentioned earlier, my big sports in high school were basketball and soccer, and Jim played baseball and golf.  Somehow, our boys settled into ice hockey, a sport neither of us played.  It was a great choice, as hockey became a big part of our life.  I'm so glad we had that opportunity to watch them play. 
 
Q: Does it make a difference having your entire family participating?
I love that the whole family works out at Five Lakes.  It's extra special when we are all there working out together with Ali coaching us.  My mom is also a member!  She attends the Mobility class at noon   on Monday and Wednesday.
 
Q: As a Master-age athlete, do you put limitations on yourself? Such, I can never do that movement?
Since turning 53 a couple of weeks ago, I do have those age-related aches and pains that seem to always be present, so that puts limits on some lifts or movements. I try not to focus too much on how much weight I'm lifting, but more on doing the lift correctly.  There are definitely movements I don't like, such as burpees, snatches, and overhead squats, but I try to come those days and work on my form.  I can pretty much say I will never do a muscle up, or handstand walk, and I'm ok with that.  I just continue to work on a modified version of those movements.

Q: What motivates you in the box?
I look forward to going to the box for every workout, even when the workouts have components to them that I really don't like.  I look at it as a chance to work on form, or work on a movement that I'm not very familiar with,  and if I can lift heavier or do a workout faster than before, that is a bonus.  I also get motivated by the whole Five Lakes community.  Every class that I've gone to has always been so supportive.  There have been times where I've wanted to quit halfway through a WOD, and my classmates and coaches have always been there to get me through.
 
Q: If you could know the answer to any question, besides “What is the meaning of life?”, what would it be?
I would probably want to know if the Red Wings will ever be good again! I know, not very deep!

Q: What is something you learned in the last week?
That it's really hard for me to watch everybody working out while I'm healing from gallbladder surgery.  I want to get back into it so bad!
 
Q: Do you ever talk to yourself? When and what do you say?
Yes!  I have little conversations with myself, usually about things that need to be done during the week. Also, if I do something stupid, like forget why I went upstairs, then I'll yell at myself.

Q: What’s your favorite movie of all time and why?
I'd have to say To Kill a Mockingbird.  I read the book for my 7th grade English class and loved it.  Eventually saw the movie when I was a bit older, and it brought the characters to life.
 
Q: If you could have a “do over” of one thing, what would it be?
I could have a few answers to this question, but I guess I would have liked to stay current on technology so I would have had a better chance at coming back to work in my field.  I was so busy raising my boys during the time when all this great technology was coming out, that I didn't stay current.  
 
Q: Who’s your favorite singer or band?
Journey!  They bring back great memories of high school when we saw them in concert a few times.

Q: Do you play games?
I play games on my tablet.  I'll play daily games of solitaire, and a couple of other word and math games.  Trying to keep my brain from turning to mush!

Q: Given you are recovering from surgery, or you stuck in and going stir crazy, or have you found things to keep busy?
I got caught up on some recorded TV shows, and Jared started me on Game of Thrones.  We're about 1/2 way through season 3.  Trying to get caught up before he leaves for Basic Training.

Q: Someone tells you that you shouldn’t be doing this CrossFit stuff at your age. What do you respond?
I tell them it is the best thing I've done for myself in a very long time.  I would also let them know that you don't need to be in shape to start CrossFit, and every movement is scaleable and can be modified.
 
Q: What was your biggest challenge raising two boys?
Well, first off I have to say that parenting has been the hardest, yet most rewarding job I've had, and I highly recommend it!  With that being said, raising my boys was craziest during hockey season, which lasts about 10 months of the year, and they played competitively for about 20 years. Obviously, it was helpful as the boys got older and were able to drive themselves, but when they were young, just trying to get them both to practices and games on time was a struggle sometimes. Jim helped coach both boys for a few years, so trying to juggle that was difficult too. Figuring out who was taking which kid where was always fun. Trying to time it so I could see both boys play if they had games around the same time, but at different arenas was challenging. Being a hockey family is definitely different from other sports because of the time commitment, but I would not trade it for anything.  This is the first year for us that neither boy is playing competitively ( Beer leagues are a bit different!!), so you'll probably see us at the box a little more, since we'll have more time for ourselves!

Q: Have you had to answer the question – “Who do you love the most?” – from your kids? If so, how do you answer?
No, I've never been asked that, but I'm sure I was accused at certain times by one or the other that I loved the other one more.  I do remember telling my boys that I may not like you at the moment, but I'll always love you.

Q: Is Winter Coming?
HaHa!! It's always coming!  As long as it doesn't last 3 years, I'm ok with it!

Q: Do you sing while having a bath/shower?
I'll sing to the radio in the car, but not in the shower.  
 
Q: Name three things on your bucket list?
1. I'd like to watch the Red Wings play at all the other Original 6 arenas (Chicago, Montreal, Boston, New York, and Toronto).
2. Going to Hawaii, hopefully next year for our 30th anniversary
3. Going to see where my Great Grandfather came from in Italy
 
Q: Do you have something really scares you? How to you handle it?
I don't like scary rides or roller coasters, so I just don't go on them. Also, not a fan of bugs in the house, especially Silver Fish.  I do step on them or use a fly swatter, but those buggers are fast and creepy!
 
Q: What is the strangest food you have tried?
When I was in France after high school, I remember having escargo, which was really good, and octopus which was not so good. But I like calamari, so go figure!
 
Q: Who does the voice in your head sound like?
It depends on whats going on in there.  I mean, sometimes it sounds like my mom if I'm having a"mom" moment.  Other times it sounds like my dad, especially when it comes to sports and working out.  When I need that extra encouragement, I'll hear my dads voice, which is cool because he's been gone for almost 8 years. He would always say "winners never quit and quitters never win". He was a big part in me playing sports when I was growing up.
 
Q: Would you ever sky dive or bungee jump?
Hell No!! Never! You can put that in the question above about things that scare me.

Q: Quickfire Round:
   Wine or Beer? Beer
   Bare feet or shoes? Shoes
   Africa or Asia? Africa
   Mansion or cabin I the mountains? Mansion
   Open 12.3 or Open 14.5 12.3
 
Q: Which Girl or Hero workout do you never want to see again?
Not that I've ever done this workout, but Linda does not seem fun even though I like to lift. Too heavy! 
 
Q: What would you do differently if you knew nobody would judge you?
Dance
 
Q: Nominate someone for an interview? You can nominate two if they are from different boxes.
My Air Force Mom, Judy Suter!
 
Q: What question do you want to ask another interviewee?
What's a typical day look like for your meals?