Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up? 

Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?

Q: When did you get in to Crossfit, and how?

Q: What are your plans for the next few months while you are working in Germany? Have you found a box to visit there?

Q: As your “going away” WOD you picked “Linda”. Why? Do you have a particular type of WOD that you prefer?

Q: You mentioned that the clean is one of your favorite movements. Do you have any that bring a groan when you see them in a wod?

Q: Do you do anything, sports wise, outside of crossfit?

Q: You talked about being an elite level athlete. Do you have ambitions within crossfit?

Q: How soon do you look at the days programming? Do you do any planning before you come in to the box?

Q: So you plan to keep at crossfit for a long time. I see a number of people taking the L1 course. Could we see a Coach Sid in the future?

Q: What are you looking for in a coach? What motivates you to improve, or push?

Q: Give us your thoughts on life. Planned? Making it up as you go along? 
 
Q: If you could change one thing in the world right now, what would it be?

Q: What does a “typical” day look like for you?

Q: On a similar line, if you are not at the box, what do you like to do to relax?

Q: What is your most challenging aspect of being a coach and crossfit athlete?

Q: How did Five Lakes Crossfit come about?

Q: How did you end up at Five Lakes?
 
Q: Do you check the workout before you come in, and if so, has it ever stopped you coming in? How much do you think about it on your way in?
 
Q: What do you want from the coaches when you are in the box? What about from those working out with you?
 
Q: How important is the crossfit community?

Q: Have you seen any differences in your daily life since starting crossfit? If so, how?
 
Q: If you had a pick a perfect workout for you, what would it include?
 
Q: How about a workout that you just want to walk away from?
 
Q: Have you now drunk the crossfit coolaid and talking about it with everyone?

Q: You are obviously busy, so how much priority does crossfit take?
 
Q: Are we going to see any of your family in the box?
 
Q: Your boys are young, but how do you approach keeping them active?
 
Q: How has the transition to crossfit been? How many days do you plan on getting to the box? What has been the most difficult movement to learn so far?

Q: How do you manage to find a balance with all the things you are involved in – wife, mother, coach, work, etc.

Q: How do you approach your kids and exercise?

Q: You are one of the biggest cheerleaders in the box. Is this a role that comes naturally to you?

Q: I think I am correct in saying that you husband is active in the Coastguard. Does that mean that you have the possibility of assignments to other places? How do you handle moving around?

Q: Quickfire Round:
Scooby Do or X-Files
Pizza or BBQ
“Angie” or “Barbara”
“Nutts” or “Whitten”
Baseball or Cricket
Monday or Friday?
Superman or Batman?
“Jackie” or “Fran”
“McCluskey” or “Lumberjack 20”?
Where is Waldo?

Q: Nominate someone for an interview



Quickfire Questions
       Pizza or Burger
        Hot or sexy
        Casual Hairstyle or New Hairstyle
        Indian Food or Chinese
        Early bird or night owl?
        Chocolate or vanilla?
        Introvert or extrovert?
        Hugs or kisses?
        Hunting or fishing?
        Winter or summer?
        Spring or fall?
        Rural or urban?
        PC or Mac?
        Tan or pale?
        Cake or pie?
        Ice cream or yogurt?
        Ketchup or mustard?
        Sweet pickles or dill pickles?
        Comedy or mystery?
        Boots or sandals?
        Silver or gold?
        Jazz or classical?
        Dancing or singing?
        Checkers or chess?
        Board games or video games?
        Wine or beer?
        Freckles or dimples?
        Honey mustard or BBQ sauce?
        Body weight exercises or lifting weights?
        Baseball or basketball?
        Crossword puzzles or sudokus?
        Facial hair or clean shaven?
        Crushed ice or cubed ice?
        Skiing or snowboarding?
        Smile or game face?
        Bracelet or necklace?
        Fruit or vegetables?
        Sausage or bacon?
        Scrambled or fried?
        Dark chocolate or white chocolate?
        Tattoos or piercings?
        Antique or brand new?
        Dress up or dress down?
        Cowboys or aliens?
        Cats or dogs?
        Pancakes or waffles?
        Bond or Bourne?
        Sci-Fi or fantasy?
        Numbers or letters?
        Star Wars or Star Trek?
        Fair or theme park?
        Money or fame?
        Washing dishes or doing laundry?
        Snakes or sharks?
        Orange juice or apple juice?
        Coffee or tea?
        Black and white or color?
        Drawings or paintings?
        Dresses or skirts?
        Books or movies?
        Pepsi or Coke?
        Chinese or Italian?
        Sunrise or sunset?
        Slacker or over-achiever?
        Pen or pencil?
        Peanut butter or jelly?
        Grammys or Oscars?
        Detailed or abstract?
        Multiple choice questions or essay questions?
        Adventurous or cautious?
        Saver or spender?
        Glasses or contacts?
        Laptop or desktop?
        Classic or modern?
        Personal chef or personal fitness trainer?
        Internet or cell phone?
        Call or text?
        Curly hair or straight hair?
        Shower in the morning or shower in the evening?
        Spicy or mild?
        Marvel or DC?
        Paying a mortgage or paying rent?
        Sky dive or bungee jump?
        Oreos or Chips Ahoy?
        Jello or pudding?
        Truth or dare?
        Roller coaster or Ferris wheel?
        Leather or denim?
        Stripes or solids?
        Bagels or muffins?
        Whole wheat or white?
        Beads or pearls?
        Hardwood or carpet?
        Bright colors or neutral tones?
        Be older than you are or younger than you are?
        Raisins or nuts?
        Picnic or nice restaurant?
        Black leather or brown leather?
        Long hair or short hair?
        “Ready, aim, fire” or “Ready, fire, aim”?
        Fiction or non-fiction?
        Smoking or non-smoking?
        Think before you talk or talk before you think?
        Asking questions or answering questions?


“What’s Your Favorite…” Questions
    What was your favorite food when you were a child?
    What’s the #1 most played song on your iPod?
    What is one of your favorite quotes?
    What’s your favorite indoor/outdoor activity?
    What chore do you absolutely hate doing?
    What is your favorite form of exercise?
    What is your favorite time of day/day of the week/month of the year?
    What’s your least favorite mode of transportation?
    What is your favorite body part?
    What sound do you love?

“What If…” Questions
    If you could throw any kind of party, what would it be like and what would it be for?
    If you could paint a picture of any scenery you’ve seen before, what would you paint?
    If you could choose to stay a certain age forever, what age would it be?
    If you knew the world was ending in 2012, what would you do differently?
    If you could choose anyone, who would you pick as your mentor?
    If you could witness any event past, present or future, what would it be?
    If you could learn to do anything, what would it be?
    If you had to work on only one project for the next year, what would it be?
    If you were immortal for a day, what would you do?
    If you had to change your first name, what would you change it to?
    If you could meet anyone, living or dead, who would you meet?
    If you won the lottery, what is the first thing you would do?
    If you were reincarnated as an animal/drink/ice cream flavor, what would it be?
    If you could know the answer to any question, besides “What is the meaning of life?”, what would it be?
    If you could be any fictional character, who would you choose?

Personal Questions
    Which celebrity do you get mistaken for?
    What do you want to be when you grow up?
    When you have 30 minutes of free-time, how do you pass the time?
    What would you name the autobiography of your life?
    What songs are included on the soundtrack to your life?

Personal History Questions
    Have you ever had something happen to you that you thought was bad but it turned out to be for the best?
    What was one of the best parties you’ve ever been to?
    What was the last movie, TV show or book that made you cry or tear up?
    What’s the hardest thing you’ve ever done?
    What was the last experience that made you a stronger person?
    What did you do growing up that got you into trouble?
    When was the last time you had an amazing meal?
    What’s the best/worst gift you’ve ever given/received?
    What do you miss most about being a kid?
    What is your first memory of being really excited?
    What was the first thing you bought with your own money?
    When was the last time you were nervous?
    What is something you learned in the last week?
    What story does your family always tell about you?
    At what age did you become an adult?

Random Questions
    Is a picture worth a thousand words? Elaborate.
    Where’s Waldo?
    The best part of waking up is?
    How now brown cow?
    Whasssssuuuupppppp?


    What is your favorite word?
    What is your least favorite word?
    What turns you on?
    What turns you off?
    What sound or noise do you love?
    What sound or noise do you hate?
    What is your favorite curse word?
    What profession other than your own would you like to attempt?
    What profession would you not like to do?
    If heaven exists, what would you like to hear God say when you arrive at the pearly gates?
