Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
My name is Steve Chang. My parents are from Taiwan, I was born in West Virginia, and I grew up in Canton, Michigan. My wife Courtney and I have two kids, Braxton and Alexandria. I've been a financial advisor at Edward Jones Investments going on fifteen years.

Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
I never played any organized team sports when I was younger, but I would say I was an active kid, running and riding my bike everywhere. I loved basketball in middle school but never made the team, so I moved on to track for one year competing in the 800m run.

The early days in my financial advising career was hard. I needed an outlet or something to do after work that I felt was going to be harder than my job. So, in 2005 I signed up for my very first race, the Detroit Marathon. All 26.2 miles! I probably should have started with a 5k, but my attitude back then was go big or go home. Since then, I've completed a total of five full marathons, a handful of half-marathons and countless 5 and 10k's.

Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
I actually met James and Bruce at a chamber of commerce event at Drakeshire Lanes on June 4, 2015. I remember the date because it was my birthday. I mentioned to James that I wanted to try CrossFit after training for and running the Detroit Marathon in October. I had it in my mind that I would try CrossFit until the end of the year and then move onto something else as I usually did with any gym memberships.

Q: What is the best advice you received from your parents?
I constantly hear from my mom - especially now that I'm 40 - to take care of myself. As she says, without your health you have nothing. Her health "tips" range from getting more sleep to limiting cell phone usage. She may be on to something as she moves around better than me! I know we always say we don't want to become our parents, but I already am with our kids.

Q: What was it about CrossFit that made you stick with it?
Let me preface this answer by stating that I grew up idolizing He-Man, Hulk Hogan, and Arnold.

Back in 2013 I joined a spin/cross training class and had a lot of fun doing it for about a year. I was progressing well and got semi-lean and mean. One day, I asked the instructor what I needed to do to lose the last ten pounds. Her answer was for me to write down everything I ate for two weeks and then give her the list. Say no more, I knew immediately what my problem was and what I needed to do, but I wasn't ready to commit to changing my diet.

Fast forward to January of 2016. I was on a roll with regards to waking up for the 6AM CrossFit class and didn't have any other gym lined up to join. Plus, I was three months into having fun with the 6AM crew and seeing some personal gains. It also helped that I was new to lifting, never having done a clean and jerk, back squat or deadlift; those are all movements I would like to improve on. To this day, I still get confused with hang/squat/power/snatch/clean and jerk terminology! Today, I continue with it for my health, my family's health, and because we have the best coaches around at FLCF. Plus, as you can see in this picture, I'm finally a mini-Hulkster!

Q: It appears that your kids are getting in to the running too. Was that a natural progression, or have you encouraged them?
We like to get out and be active as a family and running (or fast walking in our daughter's case) was one of the easiest ways to do so. We've also had fun by adding a competitive component with organized 5Ks. As long as they enjoy it, we'll continue to encourage it.

Q: You have completed the Detroit marathon. Any other top level ones, or plans to try for the Boston or New York ones?
In 2009 with the nudge from a friend, I entered the lottery for the New York Marathon with no desire of actually being selected. I'm glad I eventually ran it because it was the NY marathon's 40th anniversary. All of my marathons were unique in their own way and NY was no exception due to the sheer volume of spectator support all along the race route. It's estimated that a million people come out to cheer the runners on every year.

As for Boston, I was actually registered for a quick minute to run in 2016 but withdrew simply because I did not want to fully train in the dead of winter for the April race. Maybe someday.

Q: What's one tip would give to someone who wants to improve their running?
Efficient distance running, like any other physical endurance activity takes practice. Breathing, stride and learning how to pace took years for me to learn. What I mean by that is that we can all go out and start running without much thought to anything. You pretty much just lace up and go. It was only when I started to think about inhaling for two steps and exhaling for two steps or imagined somebody pulling a string from the top of my head while I ran (to avoid heel strikes), or used a treadmill to work on speed did I actually improve. You asked for one tip but I just gave you three!

Q: So, running is a strength. Does that help with holding a higher intensity during MetCons.
I think my running background has helped me with holding a constant intensity for a longer period of time but not necessarily a higher intensity if that makes sense. I still get very winded with MetCons that involve heavier weights.

Q: I’m guessing you also run outside of CrossFit sessions. Any other exercise you get in?
Since starting CrossFit I've actually decreased my miles dramatically to nothing but the occasional 5K. It basically came down to not having enough hours in a day to complete both a class plus a run. I did recently join the kids in their weekly martial arts class. They've been going for about three years, and I figured I might as well too since I have to be there anyway. The kids make switching stances look so easy. But for me, if you're going to come at me, do so southpaw and you'll get the KO!

Q: What CrossFit movements are the most challenging for you?
Snatch, thrusters, shoulder presses. Basically, anything that involves a lot of overhead weight. Come to think of it, anything that involves a lot of weight, in genera,l is challenging for me. I almost forgot: double unders, hand stand push-ups, butterfly pull-ups, inch-worms and Ali walk! What's great about our box is that we celebrate other people's accomplishments as they overcome challenges and I love seeing in person or in posts when somebody gets their first muscle-up.

Q: You were recently in the Canadian Rockies on vacation. Do you work out while on vacation, or just keep active?
I have yet to drop-in at another box while out of town but locating one is always on the to-do list whenever we go anywhere. Aside from that, Courtney and I might visit the hotel gym if one is available. If not, there's always functional fitness with the luggage.

Q: If you could trade lives with one person for an entire day who would it be and why?
The 1920's really intrigue me so to be able to go back in time and be a bystander in New York or Detroit for a day would be fun.

Q: Have you apologize to you parents for something you did as a kid, now that you have kids of your own?
I was an extremely picky eater as a kid, and our son is the same way although he at least tries new things that I never would have when I was younger. Also, my parents told me I would regret quitting the violin my senior year in high school, and they were right about that.

Q: What accomplishment are you most proud of?
Convincing Courtney to marry me!

Q: What choice do you regret?
Most recently, waiting too long to take our son to the doctors for an ear infection. The prognosis was two possible ruptured ear drums.

Q: Where would you tell people that they had to visit?
Any national park. We've now been to Yellowstone, Yosemite and the Canadian Rockies. They are all natural wonders and magnificent in their own ways.

Q: What is one thing on your bucket list?
A trip to Bora Bora, French Polynesia, staying in an over-the-water bungalow.

Q: What workout have enjoyed the most in the last three months?
I've enjoyed all of the Monday partner workouts recently. Also, it's nice for me to see improvements in my times for "Ali" and "Helen".

Q: Which TV family is most like yours?
That's a great question that I don't have an answer for.

Q: If you could be an Olympic athlete, which sport would you compete in?
I always thought I would be good at something like the 5000M speed skating event. Dan Jansen's 1994 gold medal win in the 1000 meter was always an inspirational story for me.

Q: If you could shop for free at one store, which one would it be?
Costco, now that school is in session.

Q: Quickfire Round:
Bond or Bourne? Bourne
Personal Chef or Personal Trainer? Personal Chef
Internet or cell phone? Phone
Dancing or singing? Dancing
“Carse” or “Tyler”? Carse
20 years younger or 20 years older? 20 years younger

Q: When was the last time you were nervous?
My last karate belt test. My kids always tease me and tell me I'm not going to pass.

Q: What profession other than your own would you like to attempt?
Blacksmith or bartender

Q: What are you afraid of?
I love the beauty of the ocean and underwater life but am afraid of its vastness. The movie Open Water 2 comes to mind.

Q: Do you untie your shoes when you take them off?
Not my gym shoes.

Q: Is there another word for synonym?
Equivalent?

Q: What is the easiest piece of financial advice you can give someone?
It's not what you make it's what you keep. Pay yourself first!

Q: Have you played a role playing game? If so, did you like it?
I never got into it.
