Q: Introduce Yourself. Who is Suresh?
For people who don’t me, I am Sureshbabbu Balakrishnan, born and bought up in Tamil Nadu, India, married to a princess named Divya, have two kids Ashwin(9) and Dhanvin (5). I am a laid back, easy going person (at least this is what I think), who doesn't like to sweat on the small stuff. I like to work on important things and put the small stuff in the back burner. You can see me relaxing in a couch and watch random videos in YouTube. I sometimes thinks too much and makes the simple things complicated. Like all forgetful men, I cannot remember where I placed his car key, books etc. and will search for it for hours. I place things so secretly that only my wife could find them. I am an Engineer, a MBA graduate and works at Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan as a Health Care Analyst. 

Q: Were you active growing up?
I was fairly active growing up, used to be out and play lots of games most of the time. In my Home country specifically where we grew up, there was kind of seasons for each activity Kite Fighting, 7 stones/Lagori, Koli Kundu(I have no idea what is the English translation), these games still interests me a lot but they are no longer played as we have become more and more sophisticated and moved to video games. In my school, apart from Cricket, had a huge liking towards Basketball and Volleyball. I still continue to keep up with Cricket and Volleyball. 

I have never been to a gym on a consistent basis. When I was 22, I got some motivation from my friend and we joined a gym in Chennai, India. The best thing I could remember is the work outs we did on Fridays which includes biceps, triceps and forearm, so that we could flaunt them during the weekend. We always skipped the leg days.  Moved to Jacksonville, Florida when I was 24. My weekdays and weekends were packed with things to do, which included running in the treadmill, volleyball, cricket, clubbing etc. I will never forget those days and will remain as memories.

Q: Another cricketer! Must be an Indian thing. Have you noticed any changes to your performances in that sport since taking up CrossFit? Also, for those of us that know the sport, tell us if you are a batsman, bowler, or all-rounder?

I would say almost 80% of Indian men are cricketers and I am one among the majority. If you ask what I am good at, I would say that I am an all-rounder, which means that I bowl, bat and act as a wicketkeeper as well. I have noticed lots of changes since joining CrossFit. I used to have shoulder pains and I could hardly bowl or throw from the deep areas of the field. My shoulders have become stronger and therefore I am able to field/bowl better. I am still cautious but I am hoping for the best. While batting I have noticed that there is a lot more power in my shots and, I am able to hit the balls farther and harder. Using the hips for generating power is another area which I believe has helped in my batting. Overall my stamina and strength has improved over the past year, and I would credit the programming and the coaches for the improvements that I see in the game.

Q: How did you started with CrossFit?
I heard about CrossFit 3 and half year ago through my friend. Ever since he joined CrossFit, he has been gung-ho about it but the issue I had was the cost. I constantly ask the question is it worth the money? I said "No" many times to that question and carried on merrily doing it in my own dumb way, which is do the same routine in my basement for 30-40 minutes without seeing much benefits. 
 
It was in January 2016, I decided to give it a try and was specifically looking for boxes which gave a discount for trying it out. My friend wanted me to come to Novi but it is a 15 min drive from home and I didn't want to drive 15 minutes up and down. I found a Groupon for a place named "Five Lakes CrossFit", which was closer to my home. I thought would give it a try. I got the Groupon and gave a call but went to voicemail. I got a call back from Bruce (I think) and he said there is ON Ramp next week and I could come in and sign up. 

I still wasn't sure if this would work because I always had this mental model of huge guys working out lifting crazy weight and showing off their body at the gym. Within a few days of On Ramp those mental models were broken and I was feeling relaxed. I quickly learned that the comparison is between the "You from Yesterday" to "You from Today". Somehow, I got hooked on it and I am loving it.

Q: You like the early morning class. Why is that?
Having two kids, I found that evenings are not an ideal time because we have to constantly fiddle with the kid’s schedule. Secondly, by the time I come home after work, I just want to rest if I have some time. I don't have the energy to do anything else. During Summer, I do have cricket, a couple of days in the evening, and I want to accommodate that as well. S early morning class is an ideal fit for me. Early in the morning no one is awake, I have an hour and half to myself where I work to get better day by day. We are made for each other at this time. 

Q: I heard a rumor recently that you signed up for your first competition. How did that decision come about, and how do you feel about it?

Yes, I have signed up for Rookie Rumble. Me and My friend Karthik, who works out at another CrossFit are partnering as Rookies for this competition. This would be my first competition aside from the CrossFit Open. I have been thinking about competitions for some time, and was looking for a competition that would be challenging, but not be too intense.  Ideally, I would have participated individually at the July 29th Meet, but the spots filled before I could register and that made me sign up for the next competition. Our team name is "Soppana Sundari". Do come and root for us. I’m looking forward to seeing you all at the Plymouth CrossFit. I have mixed feelings. There are some butterflies flying in my stomach but as soon as the WOD's are released, I will be working on it during the upcoming days.

Q: If you want us to come cheer you on, you need to tell us the date!
Mark your calendars the date is September 23rd. Looking forward to see some folks around.

Q: Five Lakes has a Goals wall. Do you set any goals for yourself in CrossFit?
Yes, I have seen the goals of various members on the wall, and I am just scared to write on it for the fear of not achieving them. I know writing them will help me to think and work towards them. You might not see my goals written in the wall, but they are clearly visible to me. I am working towards my goals by showing up to the box. To be very specific some of them are able to do Double Under, Hand Stands, Toes to Bar, Chest to Bar etc. The list is big but I am making progress.

I have another long standing goal of losing fat and gaining muscle. I have to work really hard to achieve it. I have to cut down my food intake ad focus on what I eat. This is something that is very hard for me to control as I don't do meal prep. I am going to talk to the coaches to find out what else can be done.  

Q: Does any particular workout make you consider staying at home?
I would be lying if I say "No" to this answer. During the most recent weeks, the paused front squat was giving me a lot of trouble. I blacked out at least a couple of times during my first week. I tried to push myself in the subsequent weeks, but I stayed home for the third week, but gave it a shot again the following week. I felt better, progress was made in the subsequent weeks but I don't want to see it again.

The workouts like “Fight Gone Bad”, or similar ones where we have to move from one movement to another every minute, is another one that makes me consider staying home. I know a repeat of “Fight Gone Bad” is coming up soon. I am mentally prepared for it now.

Q: So we now know which workouts are not a fan of, tell us about the perfect workout for you, what would it include?
I am still searching to find the perfect workout for me. All the workouts pose different challenges. I would love to give Cindy, and also the 15.1 open workout, another go, to find out how much I have improved. Many of you might have heard this multiple times, when I joined CrossFit, I was barely able to lunge. It was so painful that I needed a pad. I am not pain free at this time but the workouts have made my legs stronger and for that reason I like to see lunges in my workouts. 

Q: What brought you to the U.S.?
Money to be short and precise. I came here following all the other millions of immigrants aspiring to make it big. I came to the US back in July 2003, and worked for Prudential Financial in Jacksonville, FL for close to 5 years. I loved it there, and why did I ever move to Michigan? Maybe because of the Blues. or maybe not. This is a question that comes up, if not daily, but at least once a week. I am trying to find an answer for that question. I will keep you posted as soon as I find the answer. 

Q: What's your least favorite mode of transportation?
I hate my drives to work, it sucks up almost 2 hours of my life daily. It is sad to say that, because this is giving me my daily bread and butter. But it adds so much stress and I would be happy if my office shifted to a closer location.

Q: So you have a couple of hours in the car each day. What do you do with that time?
Drive. I try my best not to text and drive. I have succeeded to a fair extent, but would like to completely avoid it. Other than that I would try to think about the work ahead. I sometimes talk to my friends about their workout, activities etc.

Q: Do you do anything to get your kids active, or are they doing that on their own?
I rarely engage with my kids activities. I take them to swimming, Taekwondo, Guitar classes etc. sometimes play with them touch football, soccer, basketball and cricket. 
I just purchased a trampoline and I hope that we can spend some time jumping together as a family. Spending time with them is something I am going to focus on during the upcoming days. I have been running so fast focusing on things that are not important in life. I have to stop for a moment and start to focus on the kids and family. 

Q: Have you travelled or lived in any other countries other than US and India?
I haven't stayed in any other countries other than US and India. I have a list of countries in mind that I want to visit, it includes Switzerland, Australia and New Zealand. I am planning to go to Australia sometime soon to visit my brother.

Q: Why Switzerland?
I don't know why, but I wanted to see the Alps. I have read about them in books during my school days, and since then it has been inscribed in my mind that I have to visit the Alps. 

Q: What is your favorite date night with your wife?
Dates - It has been long since we have been out on dates. We have been out with our kids most of the time. It is very difficult for us to leave our kids and go out to have fun. Having said that, I would love to take my wife out for a nice diner followed by a movie.

Q: What profession other than your own would you like to attempt?
I would like to own a business and work from home. I have in fact started a business which could give me this opportunity. It is an IT Consulting business, where we train and market consultants. It is now a very saturated market, but I have rolled my dice, and will see how it grows in the upcoming years. 

Q: What’s the best/worst gift you’ve ever given/received?
The best gift I received was a video made by my wife for our 10th Anniversary. It was a total surprise and I didn't expect it from her. Sorry I am not going to share it.

I am very bad at giving gifts and surprising people. I bought an Audi Q7 for my wife on her birthday and I would say that as the best gift I gave. 

I have never given a gift to my Mom and Dad, and this question is making me think what I should give them. Suggestions are welcome.

Q: What was your favorite food when you were a child?
Moms cooking makes any food special. My favorite vegetarian food is Tomato coconut curry and the kidney beans curry. I still love them and in fact asked my mom to make it for me last week. I like to have these curries with food/Naan/Roti/Quinoa.

My favorite non vegetarian food is Sardine Fish Fry. It has a special taste and just saying the name of it make my mouth watering. 

Q: What songs are included on the soundtrack to your life?
I mostly listen to Indian music, Specifically Tamil songs. The song that comes to my mind is a Tamil song which is an inspirational song from a movie named Autograph. https://youtu.be/7Z8bBLu1hPk

I haven't heard this song in a while but it just energizes me whenever I am down.

When I came here and went to a dance floor for the first time, I saw people going crazy for "Drop it's like Hot" by Snoop Dog and "Yeah Yeah" by Usher. These songs bring back memories of my single days.

Q: If you could paint a picture of any scenery you’ve seen before, what would you paint?
I would like to paint the beach that I saw in Jamaica. Crystal clear waters, me and my wife laying down at the beach, relaxing and the kids playing in the background.

Q: What story does your family always tell about you?
They say that I am the first engineer from my family and I am the first one to go abroad. I am very proud of both these facts because it has helped my family tremendously over the last few years.

Q: QuickFire Round:
            If a tree falls in a forest does it make a sound? This is a very crazy question and I have read about it in the past. There are researches conducted about it. According to me it all depends on how you define "Sound". If you can feel it then "Yes" but if we cannot feel it we cannot hear the "Sound". One thing for sure if the tree falls on me, you can definitely hear a scream.
            Hugs or kisses? Kisses
            Body weight exercises or lifting weights? Lifting Weights
            Crosswords or Sudoko? Sudoko
            Call or text? Call

Q: What is your favorite time of day? 
Morning.

Q: Do you have a restaurant in the area that you would recommend?
Would recommend “Turmerican” which is located on Novi and 10 mile. It is a vegetarian restaurant and the food is very tasty. 

Q: Suggest someone else to take an interview? You can suggest two, if one if at another box.
I would like you to interview Steve Chang.

Q: What question would you like someone else to answer? Some of the questions I have are
a. Is a 10 mins workout a day, enough to get a ripped body?
b. What additional foods athletes take to keep themselves full?
c. After the WODs I am super tired during the day? How do others feel? How do they overcome it?
