Q:  Who are you?  Where did you grow up? 
Who I am currently is a loaded question, one with many facets to arrive at a reasonable answer.  The year was 1976 when my parents assigned me the social handle of Todd (Todd’s with two d’s, I’ve been told, are twice as much fun; I guess that’s up for review), making me just over 41.  My birth solidified the position of youngest, the elder two being females of our species.  I currently reside in Parkland WA, a small community minutes south of Tacoma, which is also where I spent the majority of my formative years.  Together with my wife of 15 years, Jocelyn, we manage to direct a family of 6 – a girl, and three boys between us.

Q:  Were you active growing up, and if so how?
I’m hyperactive by nature (A.D.H.D you understand), which led my parents and family to find things which would tire me out.  I recall this starting with my father, who would take me on long runs when I was a child, something I’ve kept with as the years tick by.  I played baseball and soccer up until maybe 12 years of age.  In intermediate school as I kept with running, track interested me, and into high school I dabbled in cross country, before pulling that rip-cord and scattering into the wind.  I’ve always been busy, fidgety if you know what I mean, not that leg pumping and stirring when others sit quietly is any kind of activity.  Having a motor that is always at full tilt, I found myself on the go most the time, running the neighborhood or busy on my bicycle, and there was always a sizable trampoline around after my 14th summer.

Q:  When did you get in to CrossFit, and how?
I’ve been at it now for over 5 years.  I could go on for days about this aspect, but I’ll try to condense it.  I love beer, and with that often comes friends who share the same feelings.  Sometimes, as in my case, one can become lost in a daily ritual which involves spending time with those friends and consuming that which we hold so dear, so much in fact that one can easily lose sight of things which are of most importance.  This abuse went on for a long while, so my wife went and found things more productive to do with her time while I was riding a barstool.  She started a Zumba class, which led her to a small backroom where the sounds of clanking steel peaked her interest, back where they did the CrossFitting.  Before long she was slipping me subtle hints about what she was experiencing, not pressing me exactly, but always keeping the door open for me to come see.  As I watched her physique change, my interest grew.  One night, after another episode of argue with drinking Todd aired, we arrived at an impasse… the result would be my salvation.  Days later I gathered my courage, and followed her into the temple which would ultimately become so much more than just a gym.

Q:  As you were suggested by a previous interviewee – Kat – tell us how you know her, and if she was always this “enthusiastic”?
I met Kat at the CrossFit I mentioned above, our slice of heaven - CrossFit 138.  She’s a firecracker alright, and always has that aspect waiting just below the surface.  When you share time with a culture and community of CrossFit, you begin to become family in many ways, crystalizing the realization of commonalities people share.  Kat and I share some personal struggles, which draws me to her for advice from time to time.  Sadly for me/us she left to challenge herself further, and has found what appears to be nearly the same caliber of family within your area.  We keep in touch, and it’s awesome to watch her grow…even from afar.  She is missed in our town, but with social media we manage to keep up with her shenanigans.

Q: Tell us a little more about your box?
Where to begin, so many of the poor habits and shitty attitudes I have overcome through this place, constantly updating better versions of myself.  I can’t say enough about what CrossFit 138  has given me, physically sure, but personally and emotionally.  The leader of the pack (my Captain) Dawn Schmalenberg, is truly something to behold.  Our tribe mentality emanates through Dawn, and ripples to affect everything we are and do.  From the onset, the tireless amount of support and countless hours of coaching have been selflessly applied, even though she is the owner, you’d never know it starting out.  Aside from our awesome coaches, the cohesiveness of our group as a pack is the next best attribute we focus upon.  During any given season, we band together to find new ways to challenge ourselves physically, rising to enroll in endless competitions of all sorts.  We band together in moments of triumph and misery alike, relying upon those around us for assistance and cultivating the seeds which we all know can use some extra attention.  We do what we know is right, because we all experience the pain, growing stronger through the struggles we share and overcome.  What a magical place to call home, and with the others who do the same.

Q: Tell us about your role at CrossFit 138 – athlete, coach?
Both.  I started as an athlete, then became a coach primarily to meet the affiliate mentioned above.  I’ve always had an eye on peers at the gym, and kind of get looked up to in areas I like to kill myself in… running for example, once people recognize your passion, they seek you to extend themselves, I find.  Also, in the same respect longevity at a gym gets you a deeper spot in the inner workings, a familiarity with things others new to the process find awkward, which helps too.  After our gym won the Lurong Living Paleo Challenge in 2012, I realized how much I enjoyed judging.  I have filled a few slots judging in local competitions, and then this year judges at the regionals.  I could get into more of that, which in retrospect is kind of a hybrid mix of athlete and coach at the same time.

Q: I’m always curious about how parents are getting their kids to be active.  What can you share on that note?
Truth be told, I’m not very good at parenting.  I can keep food on the table and a warm dwelling with a place to sleep, but when it comes to patience necessary, it’s a constant struggle.  My wife is an advocate and huge fan of all things soccer, as a result our sons have played pretty much since they could walk.  The love I have for running is evident in our oldest son, he did well at Cross Country (XC) in High School, and the younger two have dabbled in sports ranging from basketball to track.  As long as we (Jocelyn and myself) have been around CrossFit they have followed, not consistently, but spurts with a few months here and there.  Recently our gym offered strength training which they are into with their soccer teammates, and have begun realizing the gains which can be found through their constant effort.  Overall, in our area anyhow, poor dietary choices and lack of nutritional education have set the bar pretty low across the board in public schools.  The "No Child Left Behind Act", resulted in elementary PE teachers losing their jobs in favor of lesser cost YMCA run programs which too are missing what I knew/experienced as PE growing up.  It’s sad, but I aim to impact it…

Q: Looking back, has CrossFit changed your life?
I don’t have to look too far to see how the changes I’ve experience through CrossFit constantly reauthor my fundamental values.  In fact, most things I do are now somehow related.  I have undertaken challenges which would have never been uncovered had I never taken (been coerced into) that first uncomfortable step.  Atop those experiences, I’ve built even further.. becoming a coach myself, creating a business, sharing my experiences to help others realize their own potential.  The list is endless now that I mull it over, humbling and astonishing at the same time - the power I’ve drawn from it, and which result.

Q: Do you have a particular approach to a workout, or is it always all-out effort?
I’m a firm believer in both actually.  If I don’t know how I’ll react to a workout (movements, capacity, etc..) I’ll just go balls to the wall until I figure out the points of failure, the proceed making note of those areas for next time.  The most important lessons – 1) don’t give up, ever 2) take every chance to verbally acknowledge those who are beside you struggling, helping to further their development.  Having said all that, there are goats I struggle with, and for those I know to progress and/or better myself I always need to pick a number that’s 2-3 reps beyond my (dis)comfort level to chip them away.

Q: If you could only work on one project for the next year what would it be?
… which brings us to this question.  The project of my passion (currently) is changing the lacking system above.  I’ve been tirelessly working to bring CrossFit into our public schools, all of which culminates with a program beginning in the upcoming months.  If I could allocate all my time and effort on something which I thought was of the utmost importance, this would be a definite runner up, or at the very top of that list.

Q: I think there are many who will agree with your concerns about lack of activity for kids in school.  There are many stories about school districts bringing CrossFit in with amazing results.  Tell us more about your project.
Helping out with school activities is something I’ve enjoyed as my kids traversed the elementary grades.  Watching it fall from grace, to what it has now become was difficult to endure, but I know as first as I saw the looks on the kids’ faces, that I would eventually take it upon myself to do something about it.  To date, it’s been nearly 5 years all told, but I’ve been working seriously to push my idea to integrate what CrossFit has taught me, since last October.  I’ve learned along the way that I simply will not accept no for an answer when I can do something about the issues I see arise, building confidence which I didn’t exactly know I had when I started.  As soon as I stumbled across the districts in NV and VT who were showcased on the CrossFit journal page, that’s when it all started falling together.  Working closely with those individuals who started or now oversee those programs, I started crafting the one I would eventually pitch to our district.  Long story short, after the district saw I was hell-bent, the momentum was really starting to build.  To operate a licensed CrossFit affiliate I had to get LV1 certification, that was realized in December.  After that, I established the first non-profit affiliate within a school district in our state.  Next funding, so I researched and began grant writing, two weeks ago securing a SPARK grant to cover the educational portion of it – to allow interested faculty to become CrossFit certified. As for the equipment we’ll obviously need, I’ve been working closely with the CrossFit Foundation, including its CEO and a member of his team who specializes in non-profit funding.  To meet their grant requirements, I needed to become a non-profit, which just occurred last week.  There are two loose ends to tie up this week, after which funding for equipment should be secured.  Once all that is done, then comes the real interesting part… actually teaching these methodologies to the kids in a way which they will enjoy and chase.

Q:  How are you going to go about convincing kids to start trying CrossFit?
To be honest I’m not quite sure myself.  Early on I brought CrossFit to a family fun night for the district, had wallballs and KB’s setup, some abmats and box jumps, things like that set into stations.  The typical kid attending was 7-11 years, with their families.  I had no real game plan but spoke to Pete Driscoll prior to the event as I was aware he works with younger kids in his school district.  The advice he gave was simply to make it fun, else nobody would care or involve themselves.  Just before the evening event I went to the store and got some painters tape rags, along with two colored duct tape rolls.  As the interest in the typical movements waned (heavy things are hard to move), I pulled out the supplies and constructed a tic-tac-tow board on the floor, huge size, the rags were banded with tape making them virtual x’s and o’s… kids run down and place one piece, then race back to get another… the first to get three in a row wins.  Before I knew it the lines were out the door, kids were coming through multiple times, even challenging their parents and faculty.  Making it fun is going to be key to keep the interest, but… the age I’m pointing at in the school will be grades 7-11, so I’ve got some trial and error to come up with for older kids.  In the end, much like at a typical adult box, you’ll have those who want the sports edge, and those who want the community, the later will be driven by those within community to challenge themselves.  Just seeding the class should be easy, keeping the interest to start the culture will take a bit more effort.

Q: Do you think shows like American Ninja Warrior will have a beneficial effect in bringing both kids and adults in to CrossFit?
Constantly varied sports of any type is the CrossFit way, as such it’s no wonder that people gravitate toward trying new things.  I’m not sure if it will draw more into CrossFit, but it’s interesting to think of new mixtures that may result.  People want to get better most the time.  If they find something that helps them achieve that goal, they usually stumble across CrossFit as a viable approach to betterment.

Q: Who is main cook in your family, and what is the best meal you have had recently?
My wife and I share the responsibility, right down the middle, however based on the amount of time we have each week, it could lean one way or the other.  Being fairly busy with work, small business, and kids (and all that comes with that), we tend to rotate around similar staple meals.  Prepping our favorites in endless circles, but once every few weeks we try something new.  I’m a sucker for just standard paleo hamburgers… lettuce wrapped with bacon, dill pickles, and fresh jalapeño - little bit of Dijon or spicy brown… mastery.

Q: Tell us about one place we should all visit, can be local to you or anywhere.
I believe everyone should visit the Pacific Northwest.  Although I’m heavily biased as I have been fortunate enough to call this place home for most of my years, recently two things compel me announce this nomination.  First, over the past few months my wife’s family has visited us from the Midwest, twice.  For us, living with mountains in our back yard and having rainforests across the street (not to mention the Pacific Ocean a stone’s throw away) has become something we take for granted, but watching the wonder of those who lack access to such treasures is awesome.  Second to that, something about this area transcends the typical ‘home’ feeling one gets when they leave to live someplace else.  Through my childhood, we lived in NY and CA, but always came back to live here through some turn of events.  In my adult life that same thing holds true, FL and MN can’t hold a candle to this place for some strange reason.  I’ll likely live here forever.  Sure the weather can be dreary at times, but deep down I think that’s just part of the package.

Q:  If you could choose anyone, who would you pick as your mentor?
This is a tough one.  It’s been my experience thus far that a single mentor would only limit the experiences of life.  In the last 5 years or so I’ve discovered that what you can learn from others is nearly limitless if time is taken to observe opportunities and lessons from everyone you come into contact with.  If there was one trait I’d look to learn, and if one person could actually teach it, it would be patience.

Q:  Who would you choose to play you in a movie about your life?
Kiefer Sutherland, I have no actual reason for that, but he’s pretty badass.

Q:  What was the first thing you bought with your own money?
My earliest recollection of anything tangible, was a mountain bike… and when they were just becoming popular.  It was nothing notable in terms of quality, but when I was in 7th grade it had a priceless attribute – freedom.  If memory serves it was a Huffy, and when I got enough courage to point it down a sizable hill the summer of its origin, the front forks bent like putty.

Q:  What is your least favorite word?
I can tell you a bunch of four letter words it’s not!  I dislike the word “maybe”.  It breeds resentment and indecision, typically resulting in no, which is what should have been made clear before employing “maybe”.

Q:  If you had a choice been coaching someone with talent and someone who works hard, who would you choose?
I always lean towards where the biggest gains can be made from a human growth aspect, and for all parties involved.  I think each probably has its merits and fruits.  Having never coached a world class athlete, I cannot make an assertion to that end, but having the privilege to coach everyday people often; whose goal is usually grinding toward self-betterment it is very rewarding.

Q:  Do you prefer to workout with music? If so, what type?
For some things like running, I go back and forth… I find the most peaceful running is just focusing on one’s breath, no extras.  When it comes to CrossFit, its 90’s gangster rap, hands down.

Q:  What is the sickest you have ever been?
Two instances come to mind.
 - When I was 17(ish) I had my wisdom teeth extracted, if that wasn’t uncomfortable enough, while I was recovering I contracted mono.  The entire next month was fairly shitty.

 - Kidney stones, the kind you cannot pass on your own, should be avoided at all costs.  From multiple sedations and ultrasonic blasting’s, to the unpleasantness of the stent which follows… this probably tops the list.

Q:  What is your greatest strength?
I can tell you it’s nothing in the patience department, though I’m working on that.  I think my greatest strength lies in my tenacity and work ethic.  When I’m targeting something I feel is worthwhile, I’m pretty much unstoppable.

Q:  What is a favorite thing about one of your grandparents?
I loved them all equally you understand, but some were around longer or were more invested in teaching and sharing.  My mom’s mother, Elanor, taught me look past limits others set in my path… and to cook a great many things that my family still request I make for them, from her recipe book.  If you like dill pickles, you just let me know when you’d like to try some, and where to ship them.

Q:  What is your favorite smell?
Aside from my wife’s hair, wild roses.

Q:  Do you have a sweet or savory tooth? Does it affect your nutrition?
I have many teeth, the ones which traditionally trip me up… 
 - The beer tooth, followed by a bunch of poor dietary decisions.
 - The sweet tooth.  I’m Paleo (and now dabbling in Keto) more than 90% of the days, for the past 5 years.  I can reign it in good, but when I go off the reservation, its jelly beans, and candy corns… and by the handful. 

Q:  Where is your favorite place to go on a weekday afternoon when you have no plans or obligations?
I love to help at the gym given the chance, and if the kids are home and the season is right, bowling or fishing.

Q:  What is your favorite website?
I don’t have one, probably amazon.com…

Q:  Is there a documentary or book that really changed the way you thought about something?
So many, but I think the most influential to this point is Mindfulness: Finding Peace in a Frantic World.  This book changed my life and how I look at everything.

Q:  What is your favorite cheesy pick-up line? Have you ever used it?
I don’t have one, and have never used one that I can recall (I’ll ask my wife, maybe I’m mistaken).

Q:  Quickfire Round:
-	Prince or Frog?  
o	Frog
-	Jelly beans or candy corn? 
o	Candy Corn, hands down.
-	Brunette or Blonde? 
o	Blonde
-	Theme park or water park? 
o	Theme, but with water attractions.
-	13.3 or 14.4 
o	14.4

Q:  One piece of advice you want your kids to get?
A:  Patience is key, if you can master patience, everything else is attainable.

Q:  If you could sit down with a CrossFit Games athlete who would it be and why?
A:  I don’t follow games athletes much, but Cole Sager, and just to understand where his wellbeing sprouts from.

Q:  Nominate another person to be interviewed. You can nominate more than one, as long as they are both from different boxes.
A:  Austin Stack (austin@crossfittheden.com), Laurie Bowler (info@rainiercrossfit.com), Melissa Knighton (trainingdaymail@gmail.com) 

Q:  What question would you like me to ask another interviewee?
A:  What is the change they want to see in the world, through their involvement with CrossFit.
