Q: Who are you? Where did you grow up?
My name is Zac Massa and I have lived in the Farmington/ Farmington Hills area my entire life. I moved a few times but have luckily stayed in the area and hope to stay here for a long time. 

Q: Were you active growing up, and if so how?
I would say I was pretty active growing up. I grew up playing hockey ever since I can remember. My first time on skates was actually when I was 18 months old. One thing my mom loves to tell people is that for the first couple years of skating I actually figure skated and was taught by all figure skating coaches. Other than hockey, I grew up playing baseball. I played baseball until my junior year of high school until I gave it up and started to focus more on hockey. I then played hockey for Oakland Universities Division 3 ACHA Team for the past 4 years. 

Q: When did you get in to CrossFit, and how? 
I started Crossfit about 3 years ago when Ali convinced me to come to their Rochester house and do some workouts in their garage while I was living at Oakland. So for the past 3 years I've taken the summers away from hockey to focus on Crossfit and try and get better with the limited time. Unfortunately the summers would end and I wouldn't see the inside of the box until the next summer. This year being my first year without hockey, it will also be my first "full-year" of Crossfit so I'm really looking forward it.
 
Q: You recently competed on a team at the Granite Games. Was this your first taste of competition and has it whetted your appetite for more? 
Yes! The Granite Games was a blast. As most people know, I'm very competitive no matter what it is. So because of this, competing is a lot of fun to me. Me and Andrew did a small comp in Grand Rapids in the beginning of the summer which was my first competition but the Granite Games was my first weekend long competition. Now that it's complete, I am definitely ready for more. 

Q: Do you have specific goals and plans to reach them in CrossFit?
I don't have any specific long term goals but I would like to see how fit I can get. I have smaller goals like with certain lifts or movements that I want to hit in the next year.  I know how long it might take to get very good but I plan to take it day by day and just see where it takes me. I would say thy a big goal of mine is to eat healthy for this next full year because I know how much help that can be towards my fitness. 
 
Q: Are you following the programming at the box or do you have some other program? Or a mix of both?
Ever since my schedule changed since school started back up again I have been following a different programming just because I come at weird times. There are still lots of days I find myself doing our programming because I feel the workout and/skill is something I need to work on. So overall I would say a mix of both. 
 
Q: What is your largest weakness at this time?
That's a tough question because I have so many things in my mind that I want to work on. Through my first couple years of Crossfit I have always been known to go as fast as possible and not pace myself. I think that's one weakness I have improved on lately. The thing I was fed to focus on and improve the most this year is my strength. Maybe in a few years or so I'll be lifting some weights like James and Nic. 

Q: Have you come across a workout that you don’t want to do again?
I can’t think of any in particular because usually the ones that hurt the most are the ones I like doing more than once. Earlier in the summer James programmed a workout that had a 200 meter run with a 45lb plate along with power cleans. That workout beat me up mentally more than any workout I’ve ever done. I think I finished 3 seconds before the time cap. So as much as I hated it, I can’t wait to see it again. 
Q: Were you named after someone?
No my first name didn't come from anyone unfortunately, but my middle name Nolan was given to me because it's my mother's maiden name.  
 
Q: Do you manage your nutrition?
Let’s just say I try to. During the summer I do really well eating the right things because I really focus on my fitness and health during the summer. So I’m the past I’ve always done the paleo diet during the summer. This summer and now for the rest of the year I have started to focus on my macros (fats, proteins, and carbs). I ask Ali, James, and Liz a lot of questions about how I should be eating and they have helped me a lot. But just like everyone, I definitely make sure I find room for ice cream every once in awhile (every week). 
 
Q: What is it that drives you?
I think just being competitive has helped push me to get better everyday as well as setting goals for myself. Also seeing James, Nic, and all the top Crossfit athletes really motivates me. One thing I have really focused on keeping in mind is that it’s not gunna happen overnight and that the goals I set may take a year or even a few years to accomplish. 
 
Q: Who has had the most influence in your life?
I definitely would have to say my grandfather. No matter what situation I have gone through I feel like I've always been able to ask him for help. He has been my biggest role model and the person I looked up to for the past 23 years because no matter what he found the positive outlook of everything and was always taught me to keep pushing and keep trying to get better no matter what it was in life. Unfortunately he passed away this past Saturday, but I know he is still gunna be helping me the rest of the way. 

Q: So, you said you are no longer playing hockey? Is there a reason behind that?
The main reason I chose not to play was because I felt I had done all I could the past 4 years. 2 years ago our team won the National Championship as well as our Conference championship. After winning those, along with some individual awards I figured it was time to move on and focus on graduating college and the next chapter of my life. A lot of people miss it when they stop playing a certain sport but luckily I found Crossfit has been an amazing replacement. 
 
Q: If I understand correctly, you are in college. What are you studying and why?
Yes, I’m a senior at Oakland University studying Occupational Health & Safety. This is the same thing that Pam, Jim, and Justin Vanvalkenburg studied at Oakland. 
 
Q: Do you plan on staying in Michigan after graduation, or do you want to travel?
I really want to stay in Michigan and actually stay pretty local. My plan is to graduate and get a job around the area. I plan on staying being around here for awhile. 
 
Q: What do you like to do outside of studying and working out?
Now that Hockey is over, I’m not really sure. Work out more, maybe, if that’s an option. I spend a lot of my time either at the box, working, or doing homework. I would have to say the two things I do most after that is eat and spend time with my family. But, I try to watch a couple episodes of some tv show on Netflix every night. 

Q: If you had to live aboard for a year, where would you want it to be?
I’ve been to many different countries abroad because of Hockey the past few years so it makes it tough to pick one. I would have to say Poland. Krakow was beautiful and my grandma’s family was from Poland so it would make it special to live there and learn more about my heritage. 
 
Q: What sounds would be on the soundtrack of your life?
That is a very tough question. I don’t think I can even think of any specific songs. I listen to a lot of country music so if I had any, they’d definitely be some sort of country. 

Q: If dragons were real, what would you do?
I would learn how to ride them and become best friends with one. 
 
Q: What’s something you know you do differently than most people?
When I eat chicken at home I really like to eat it with peanut butter every once in awhile. I love how the peanut butter just melts on the chicken. Peanut butter chicken sandwich, everyone should try it!!!
 
Q: Would you rather lose all of your old memories, or never be able to make new ones? 
I’d rather keep my memories and never be able to make new ones. I can’t imagine losing all the memories I have made already. 

Q:  What chore do you absolutely hate doing?
I don’t think anyone likes doing any type of chore! I guess I would have to say I’m not a fan of doing the dishes but the dishwasher helps with that so it’s not too bad. 
 
Q: If you could learn to do anything, what would it be?
First thing that came to mind was to be a doctor or specifically learn how to cure cancer. Too many people have died because of it. 
 
Q: You are given the opportunity to have your mind moved permanently in to a computer game where you can never die. Would you?
No way. I think part of the reason people push themselves to be better throughout their life is because they know it doesn’t last forever. If I knew I was never going to do I think it’d get boring.
 
Q: If you could ask a single person one question, and they had to answer truthfully, who and what would you ask.
I think that I would ask my grandpa what one thing he wished he would have been able to do in his life that he didn’t get the chance to do. 

Q: If you had the chance to implement one mandatory thing that everyone in the world had to do, would you, and if so, what would it be?
Honestly I think I would make it mandatory for everyone to do 30 minutes of physical activity a day. It’s so important to staying healthy and I think everyone could slide in 30 minutes of something everyday. 
 
Q: How many times a day do you look in the mirror?
Oh man unfortunately I’d have to say a lot. I would guess maybe 2-3 most days. Mostly because I am very self conscious about the way my body looks and I am never satisfied. I have definitely been getting better at this though and haven’t been looking as much.
 
Q: What is a bad habit you have?
I tend to leave a lot of lights on in the house. 
 
Q: If you had an unlimited amount of money, what would be the first thing you would buy?
I would definitely buy my mom a house. That way she could relax a little and not have to work as much. Second thing would be something fun like a small island. 
